The great battle of the Antietam had been fought, and a veteran army was gathered around Harper's
Ferry recruiting for fresh campaigns. Here was a chance to see a battle field and warriors
to be celebrated for all time. From childhood up we have been taught history; and all history,
except some few dry constitutional treatises, has been accounts of great commanders, of the
marches and retreats of bronzed soldiers, of empires won by the sword, of dynasties established
by conquests. Our hymn book, our clergymen, and our Bible have exhorted us to be soldiers of
the cross, to buckle on our armor, and to fight the good fight, even when turning the other
cheek when smitten on the one. Now this opportunity to see actual history, a battle field,
and veteran troops, and great leaders whose names are to be household words, could not be resisted;
so, taking a couple of blankets apiece, and a few clothes, and money wherewith to pay our way,
we started by rail for Baltimore, and thence for the army.

Around Baltimore were several regiments. Those that we visited were of the recent levies, and
were improving fast in discipline and drill. They were placed in strong positions to prevent
a rebel attack from the west, and to command the city. The stars and stripes floated over houses
in all parts of the town. We met a little company of boys seven miles out playing soldier,
with the star-spangled banner, a cheering sign of the loyalty of the place.

At Baltimore my friend and I took seats in the car for Harper's Ferry. The train was crowded
with a most miscellaneous set of passengers, officers of all grades, from general with stars
to second lieutenant with plain bands, common soldiers, sutlers, Jews, and country people.
Some of the Jews, after a time, became the most noisy part of the crowd, and belied their proverbial
reputation for shrewdness by imbibing from bottles, which they circulated very freely, becoming
very talkative, and most decidedly drunk. The most interesting companion we met was a member
of the Maryland House of Representatives, a very sensible man, and of course a strong Unionist.
He did not approve of the President's emancipation proclamation; thought it would alienate
Union men in the Border States, and made other objections to it. He informed us that his negroes
were of no profit to him; that the proclamation had made them believe they would all be free;
that they did pretty much what they chose; and that Maryland would have to accede to the President's
advice to the Union Border States to emancipate their slaves and receive compensation for so doing.

The railroad, after leaving the Relay House, runs along the Patapsco river, amid most beautiful
scenery. We passed numerous trains with Government stores--one of baggage cars fitted up with
rough seats and crowded inside and on the top with a regiment of Uncle Sam's bluecoats, cheering
and singing as new troops only do. There were no signs of the devastations of war until we
approached the Monocacy river. During their campaign in Maryland, the rebels at one time made
this river their line of defence: it was supposed that they would make here a stand against
McClellan's advance from Washington. They had burnt the woodwork of the bridge, twisted the
long iron rods of the structure to one side, destroyed all the railroad building, engines,
and cars they could lay hands on, and had done everything to retard our force. A new bridge
had now been recently built, over which we were obliged to pass slowly. Immediately after leaving
the river, the road branched, one track leading to Frederick, then an immense hospital containing
seven thousand wounded soldiers, the other keeping on and striking the Potomac at the Point
of Rocks. We saw soldiers and sentries at several places, but were surprised that we did not
see more. The road keeps close to the river for some miles to Harper's Ferry. On the other
side the ground was frequently occupied by the enemy's pickets; the difficulty of approaching
the river being the only impediment to the shelling of trains on our side. The Potomac was
unusually low; there had been a long season of dry, beautiful weather, rendering it fordable
in many places.

At the Point of Rocks we enter upon the mountains of the Blue Ridge, and the railroad winds
in the deep valley worn by the river, amid the most picturesque and beautiful scenery. The
canal is between the railroad and river: its locks had been destroyed and the water drained
out by the rebel hordes; for it is a great artery of life to Washington, and invaluable to
an army encamped along its borders, furnishing economically the transportation of the great
supplies necessary for the soldiers' subsistence. At this time it seemed of no use except as
a depository for the carcasses of dead horses.

With the exception of this dismal empty canal, there were very few signs of the ravages of
the armies which had lately swept through these charming valleys. A few miles from Harper's
Ferry, by the side of the railroad, were great hayricks, and the barns were full to overflowing.
As we approached Sandy Hook, a village of a few houses on the north side of the Potomac, about
a mile from Harper's Ferry, we saw on the road, which ran close to the railroad track, thousands
of the blue-bodied, white-topped army wagons. In the most crowded thoroughfare of London one
would not see so many teams. From this neighborhood the great army of the Potomac drew the
most of its supplies. The ninth army corps was moving this day to its camp, two or three miles
northward; and part of its cannon, their brazen throats still tarnished by sulphurous smoke,
added to the throng. It is surprising how large a portion of the army is composed of these
baggage trains, and of the camp followers, teamsters, servants, and sutlers. A regiment of
infantry, under the little shelter tents is crowded, into a small space; but the bulky baggage
trains cover much ground. We spent the best part of a day, in going to and returning from the
army, in the neighborhood of a small wayside tavern in this little village of Sandy Hook, with
no other amusement than watching the moving of the teamsters, chatting with stray officers
and soldiers, and seeing what may be called the back-stair life of the army. And we wish here
to protest against the abuse which has been so abundantly heaped upon the teamsters: we found
them, as a class, a respectable body of men, quite skilful in the management of their animals,
comparing well with those in the same occupation in our great cities: there was certainly not
so much swearing, and not so much abuse of their mules and horses, as one sees in New York.
I remember their kind attention to me, some days afterward, when, in my impatience to get by
a long train of teams filling up a little country road, I had imprudently urged my horse on
to a ledge of rocks, where he, not being an old warhorse, hesitated, slipped, and fell flat
on his side, among the mules of one of the wagons; and, as the horse, with my leg under him,
was rolling to recover himself, the anxiety of the teamsters as to whether I was hurt, and
then as to my horse, a fine animal, who had cut himself a little on the rocks. Their proffered
assistance was very different from the oaths I should have met under similar circumstances
in some Northern cities.

The army wagons are large, with great white cotton coverings, and generally drawn by six mules:
the driver, usually a colored man, rides the first nigh mule, and has one rein, called the
'jerky rein,' running over the head of the mule before him, through a ring fastened to his
headstall, and dividing on the back of the leader, and fastening to his bit. The mule is directed
to one side or another by the driver twitching the rein and shouting. There were some few wagons
driven from the box, but in all these cases that we noticed, the animals were horses, four
in number, and their drivers were white. The mules and horses were generally in good condition,
and quite a contrast to those in the cavalry service, which, even in a crack regiment, like
the sixth regular, presented a most sorry appearance of overwork and terribly hard usage. The
baggage trains and camp followers are a necessary portion of every army, and its efficiency
depends in a great measure upon the perfect organization of this essential part. In the French
army this organization is carried to a high degree of perfection. A small army of ten or twenty
thousand men can get along with a fewer proportional number of followers, as it lives more
upon the country, than a great army of one hundred thousand.

Every regiment has its own baggage wagons to carry its tents, cooking apparatus, officers'
mess chests, and personal baggage. At the beginning of the war, each of the Massachusetts regiments
was fitted out with from fifteen to twenty-four wagons. A recent United States regulation has
limited the number to six for one regiment. The personal baggage of the regiments, however,
forms a small part of the great transportation of an army. The spare ammunition is no small
matter; every cannon having a supply of round shot, shell, canister, and grape: all these may
be needed by each piece in a battle, as the shot used depends upon the distance of the foe.
A full regiment of infantry may fire in one battle sixty thousand rounds of ammunition, weighing
nearly three tons. The pontoon trains, the baggage of the staff, the forage for the horses
of the artillery and of the generals, field officers, and their staffs, the food of the army,
and the food and forage for this further army of camp followers--all have to be transported.
The cavalry are expected to forage for their horses from off the country; all the rest have
to be provided for. To carry the subsistence of a regiment of nine hundred men for one day,
requires one of the six-mule teams: for a march of twenty days there must be twenty wagons.
One will see from this that, next to the general, the quartermaster has the great post of responsibility.
He has to see that all the supplies are obtained and forwarded to the right place. He commands
all these countless wagons with their teamsters. It is also his duty, when on the march, to
pick out the camp, unless the general may take it from out of his hands. The army, as a general
thing, will not fight well unless it is well fed and well cared for. To assist him, the quartermaster
has his necessary clerks, for he carries on a large business, with Uncle Sam as his principal,
and he must account to him for every pound of coffee, bacon, flour, and hay, barrel of vinegar,
keg of nails, tent or tent pin that he receives, and finally return them, or tell him satisfactorily
where they have gone, and produce his vouchers; or he and his bondsmen must pay their value.
All this is done by system and rule: there are mounted wagonmasters to look out for every small
string of wagons, and some sort of discipline prevails among these non-enlisted men. A great
army must be a moving city, capable of subsisting itself in the uncultivated and desert regions
through which it often passes. Every cavalry soldier carries his spare horseshoes and nails;
and every cavalry regiment and every battery of artillery has its own forge, tools, and materials
for shoeing its horses and making repairs: even the quartermaster's train must have its blacksmiths
and their supplies.

In travelling down the Rhone during the Crimean war, I was vainly trying to make out the meaning
of the letters on the military button of an officer sitting before me; when one of his companions,
who happened to be at my side, a well-educated, intelligent man, good-naturedly informed me
that they indicated that the wearer belonged to the bureau of the post. He and several others
on the boat had been educated for this branch of the service at a military school in Paris,
and were en route for the sole purpose of taking charge of this department. We have not arrived
at this perfection; for ours, after all, in many respects, is an army of volunteers; but still
a messenger had to go every day to Washington for the letters of the army corps, and the telegraph
and its wires travel with the camp. The officers' servants alone, in an army of a hundred and
fifty thousand men, number more than the thirty-nine hundred soldiers the city of Boston has
to raise for her proportion of the levy of nine-months men. The number of servants and horses
of an officer depends upon his rank; he draws subsistence for the number allowed to him. A
mere cavalry captain can draw for and usually has two horses. His horses and trappings, his
mess, must be cared for by others; and hence the thousands of servants that must go with the
thousands of officers.

But let us pass from this, which is common to every army, and proceed on our journey. The easily
pulverized, light, clayey soil around Sandy Hook was raised in huge clouds by the countless
wagons and the hoofs of the horses of the squads of cavalry officers, couriers, and wagonmasters.
The little tavern was once, the old woman who kept it assured us, surrounded by a pretty fence,
and a garden with grass and flowers: now the fence was half gone, and to its pickets were tied
the horses of officers, quartermasters, baggagemasters, and orderlies, and the flowers were
trampled into light dust. The provisions in the house had been eaten by hungry travellers,
who were supplied with very scanty fare, and were thankful to get that. The old woman, having
dealt out to us the little she had left, for which she demanded most abundant compensation,
amused us with her tales. Her house had been alternately the home of Unionists and rebels.
It was not many days since divisions of rebels had gone by and encamped there, both before
and after the surrender of Harper's Ferry. The shells fired in that fight had passed over her
tavern. Her description of the hungry, tired troopers, arriving in the evening, and surrounding
the house, the men falling down asleep under their horses' bellies, horses and men packed in
together as thick as a swarm of bees, was quite graphic. Her accounts of her conversations
with the great rebel leaders were interesting, but I feared were apocryphal, as she ended by
assuring us that General Lee had to sleep supperless on her woodpile. If it were not for this
last tale, kind reader, you would have been entertained with the conversations of the great
chiefs of rebeldom, as related by a reliable witness. We did hear from her, and from officers
who saw the rebel soldiers at Harper's Ferry, of the pitiable condition of some of the infantry,
of their naked, bleeding feet, and their gaunt looks. Our landlady affirmed that we could not
find a dog in the neighborhood; for they had gone before the rebel hordes in the way that such
flesh disappears before the Chinese and Pacific Islanders. It is probably true that at times
they were hard pressed for food, and many badly off for shoes; but we were told by officers
who saw the dead at Antietam that, though not so well shod as our men, they were shod, and
they had provisions in their haversacks. The rebels have flour dealt out to them as rations
on the march, and they have to cook it. Our troops have hard biscuit, called 'tack;' it is
made in squares, and some which was fresh was very good; but it often comes to the regiments
with maggots. This is not so much objected to; but when, in addition, it is mouldy, the men
grumble. By the side of the fresh tack were some Sandy Hook veteran biscuit, that had been
through the Peninsular campaign, and had come last from Harrison's Landing; the outside of
the boxes was enough to condemn them, and the commissary was saying that he must get Uncle
Sam's inspector-general to examine and pass upon them. When we saw this hard, mouldy old tack,
we appreciated the joke of the Western boys, who declared they found the date of the baking
on their biscuit in the letters 'B. C.,' 'Before Christ.' The luxury of soft bread is prized
by the troops. Near Baltimore, where the 38th Massachusetts were stationed for some weeks,
nice ovens were built, after the fashion of the French army, and fresh bread, meats, and the
Yankee Sunday beans cooked. With the army in the field this cannot be done, but the ovens could
have been built during the weeks our soldiers were resting on the banks of the Potomac. Our
troops at this time were fed on the hard tack and fresh beef; and some of the men in a camp
near Sharpsburg complained of the want of salt provisions. This seemed unreasonable, until
we heard that they had no salt, the long distance it had to be teamed being the excuse given
for the unpardonable want of it. This hard tack is doing one good thing: it is giving the men
white teeth; you can tell an old soldier by his polished ivory; his teeth approach the appearance
of the Italian and Swiss peasantry, who also chew hard bread. Reader, did you ever try to work
your way through the hard loaf of the peasant's fare? The army regulations require tooth brushes
for the men; it is supposed that the proper use keeps off ague and disease; still many regiments
were without one to a company.

But to return to our old woman at the little tavern of Sandy Hook. She had tales, too, of our
officers. That morning she had seen our handsomest and our most splendid-looking general--in
appearance the ideal of the brigand of the romance--Burnside, riding by, with his black, tall,
army felt hat, without plume or gilt eagle, brim turned down, his dark blue blouse covered
with dust. 'Why,' said she, 'he looked, in his dusty blue shirt, with two old tin dippers strung
by the handle at his belt, like any farmer; but I suppose he had some better clothes.' Her
lament for the gallant fellows who had fallen by disease, torn by the cannon shot, or struck
by the deadly rifle ball; for the sufferings of the poor, sick, lame, and mutilated soldiers;
and her solemn asseverations that there was something wrong in the hearts of the leaders on
both sides, to permit this suffering and loss of so many good men, was truly touching. We could
not reason it out with her; logic had to give place to her pathetic lamentation. I do not,
however, intend to keep my readers so long a time at this little wayside inn as I was; and
will pass on to Harper's Ferry, a mile beyond.

But before we part, we certainly should not fail to notice a modern addition to the camp follower
that Napoleon did not have in his grand armies--the newsboy--the omnipresent, the irrepressible
gamin of the press. New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, all had contributed their
quota, and what a glorious harvest they were reaping! Baltimore Americans, at five cents each;
New York Heralds, Tribunes, and Times, at ten cents; and everything sold early. One little
fellow was strutting around with a pair of spurs on, and styled himself 'colonel;' the others
he introduced as his staff. The day's work was over, and larking had begun. I found the spurs
were for use. The colonel had bought an old condemned brute, which his companions were trying
to buy at the advanced price of ten dollars. The camps were at a distance, from two miles upward,
and a mounted boy could bring his wares to market first. And so the whole afternoon every rider
of a particularly bad horse was pestered by an offer of five or ten dollars, from a throng
of dirty, noisy, scampish ragamuffins. Later in the evening, the guard went by with some three
or four of the boys, for once without a grin on their faces, under arrest. We asked the colonel,
who had the reputation of being an honest fellow, what was the matter with his suite. He only
replied that it was hard times for newsboys, if that was the way things were going; and walked
off, clanking his long spurs over the stones.

The railroad and road from Sandy Hook to Harper's Ferry run under the Maryland Heights, the
rocks having been blasted away for a passage. The railroad bridge had been rebuilt, not permanently,
but so that trains could again cross. Lower down the river were the remains of the pontoon
bridge destroyed by the rebels. Higher up on the other side of the railroad was a new pontoon
bridge, built on boats, painted with Uncle Sam's light blue color. Farther up, the wagons were
fording the stream. As you crossed the pontoon bridge, you came directly to the little stone
engine house, with its belfry, where John Brown held the power of the great State of Virginia
at bay. All else of the Government buildings are in ruins. The long lines of brick and stone
walls blackened by fire, and the picturesque broken arches of the engine-house windows, were
a fit greeting to one's entrance upon the ruined grandeur of the Old Dominion. Through the
clouds of dust and the noise and confusion of the village upon the hill rising immediately
above the river, we rode, noting the signs of the recent contest, or looking down on the blue
Potomac, flowing peacefully below. One large brick house had a breach in the basement story
large enough for us to ride in, caused by some bursting shell. Dead horses still lay in the
road; the tailpiece of a broken cannon was yet there. As we emerged out of the dust at the
top of the hill beyond, toward the afternoon sun, rose Bolivar Heights, and the innumerable
white tents of General Sumner's large army corps. The soldiers were out for drill or dress
parade. The distant sounds of the bands and bugles and drums, sometimes succeeding each other,
then mingling together, fell softened but constantly on the ear, and everywhere was the gleam
of the declining sun on glistening sword or bright musket barrel. Behind us to the east, and
beyond the Shenandoah, which flowed at the foot of the village, arose the high Loudon Mountains;
on the north, on the other side of the Potomac, were the Maryland Heights, with the road to
Sharpsburgh and Williamsport winding along its wooded base. The tops of these mountains were
lighted up and wreathed with the smoke of the fires kindled to destroy the thick woods that
might afford shelter to approaching enemies. It was most charming mountain scenery. We enjoyed
the view long, but had to turn our backs at last; and as we recrossed the pontoon bridge we
wiped off from the soles of our feet a large portion of the sacred soil of Virginia. Yes, the
sacred soil of Virginia, the mother of presidents, the home of Washington, Patrick Henry, Jefferson,
and Madison, and of how many others famous in our history. O Virginia, what a contrast is there
now! the blood of thy boasted chivalry struggling manfully stains the ground; thy soil is ground
to powder under the heel of the hated mudsils of the North; thy fertile plains and beautiful
valleys are trodden down by armed men; the fierce contest, and desolation and want have come
to every household; and the cry arises for thy sons that are not!

The headquarters of Gen. McClellan were two or three miles north of Knoxville, a little village
on the Potomac, about three miles below Harper's Ferry. The day that we were there, the General
was absent on his way to meet Mrs. McClellan, and though the telegraph wires ran to headquarters,
nothing was there known of the foray Stuart had begun early that morning from Hancock, in the
rear of our forces; not till evening, and until his arrival at Chambersburg did the news arrive.
If the telegraph wires had been laid, or the signal corps so stationed as to have given warning
of the inception of this movement, these bold rebels could not have advanced so far, but would
have been compelled to retreat as they came. Between the General's headquarters and the river
were the famous sixth cavalry of regulars and some batteries of artillery. He had no guard
in the direction of Pennsylvania toward the northeast, where Stuart's cavalry passed on their
way to the Potomac. The camp itself was not well placed, and was soon changed. In going from
it we rode through a most beautiful country by the side of an officer of the sixth cavalry,
and listened to his enthusiastic account of scouting in front of our lines, in the footsteps
of the retreating enemy, over the very roads we were travelling safely and without concern;
and yet we were not many miles from the foe, and within reach of the marvellous flight of the
minié ball, which some lurking rifleman might aim from the other side of the Potomac. These
cavalry soldiers and horses have had a terribly hard time of it. The horses of the sixth were
more broken down and thinner than in the artillery or baggage trains. Two squadrons had lately
been part of the force sent on a reconnoisance to Leesburg; and upon the return of our troops
it had been the duty of our companion, then in command, to bring up the rear and drive in the
infantry stragglers. Some two hundred had fallen out of the ranks from mere exhaustion. To
leave any of these soldiers behind would be giving them up as prisoners, and affording the
enemy the opportunity of obtaining information which it was of the utmost importance for the
safety of the expedition to keep back. The troopers had therefore to drive them on with their
swords--not a pleasant duty, when the poor fellows were faint and used up by fatigue--still
it must be done. This service creates quite a dislike between the two arms. The infantry man
hates the horseman, and the cavalry man despises the foot soldier. At this time straggling
was quite prevalent: we saw on byroads many who had left the ranks, almost invariably having
thrown away their arms, and subsisting on plunder. The cavalry were scouring the roads for
them, and were bringing them in as prisoners for punishment. This sixth cavalry, like all the
old regiments which had been through the Peninsular campaign and the disastrous retreat under
Pope, was frightfully reduced in numbers: only three hundred and seventy were around the standards
out of the eleven hundred who first took the field. Many had fallen on picket or been cut off
singly, more by disease, but alike doing their duty, unmentioned and unnoticed. A larger number
were yet suffering from overwork and sickness; and the regiment would in time recruit to seven
hundred, from men now disabled, if there should be no more casualties.

A few days in camp, in a good-sized tent--none of the two-feet-high shelter affairs--in pleasant
summer weather, is, on the whole, something new and exhilarating. The ground, to be sure, is
rather hard, particularly when you have no straw; and a soldier's table is not always the most
luxurious in the world. Now that we are safe, dry, and warm, at home, we can venture to declare
that we were very unfortunate in losing the sensation of going without food, of sleeping in
the mud and in the rain--our arms girded on--any moment to be aroused by the whistle of the
bullet or the roll of the drum calling us to the deadly strife.

To us, however, it was all couleur de rose. In the early morn, at break of day, it was not
the crow of the cock, or the jarring rattle of the wheels of the city baker or milkman, but
the reveille that waked us from our martial dreams. The drum of the infantry, the bugles of
the cavalry and artillery would begin; some early riser would rouse up his regiment; then another
would take it up; until the call had gone through every corps. The old staid rub-a-dub of the
English drummer is giving place to the stirring French rat-a-plan. And there was one band that
generally led off in a splendid style. They did beat their drums lively and sharply. Not being
obliged to be up with the sun and cook our own breakfast, we generally contrived to get a little
more sleep. After breakfast, the bands were playing for guard-mounting; and we sat gazing down
into the valley from our tent upon the large army corps encamped below. We were on the western
slope of the Blue Ridge, through whose gaps not many days before, a few miles farther north,
Franklin had successfully fought his way. Still farther up, Burnside, with Reno and Hooker
under him, had at South Mountain driven the enemy in--that battle which came to us so welcome,
the first victory after Pope's disasters, and the retreat from the Peninsula. The valley below
us was Pleasant Valley. The opposite side to our tent was a short spur of the Blue Ridge; the
southern extremity of which is the Maryland Heights, so well known in the history of the surrender
of Harper's Ferry. The valley between is fertile and highly cultivated, full of mountain springs
and brooks, emptying into one stream of sufficient size to turn the wheels of a large mill;
the water is delicious; the prevailing limestone does not reach this valley. In the morning
before the army moved there, the little river was clear as crystal; at night it was changed
into an opaque white color, a stream of soapy water; a pleasing witness to the cleanliness
of our men. There were no clothes lines, however, but many of the washers were so scantily
off for clothing that they put their garments on to dry. The farmhouses in the valley are mostly
of stone. It is a most charming and beautiful place, and appropriately called 'Pleasant Valley.'
The farmers are prosperous; and the land so rich that it sells for the high price of seventy
and eighty dollars an acre. The mountains rising on the sides of the valley are thickly wooded;
and in the cultivated fields between were crowded the tents of the ninth army corps. With the
exception of one or two new regiments who had wall tents, the soldiers were under little shelter
tents, of which each man carries a piece. The infantry were encamped in divisions and brigades;
the cavalry generally picketed along a fence; the horses and men, except the officers, without
shelter. The encampments of the artillery and cavalry with their horses, forges, and wagons,
covered much ground; but the infantry were thickly crowded together; and it was surprising
to see how many men a small encampment would turn out.

In the afternoon came drills, sometimes of regiments, sometimes of brigades, and the unfailing
dress parade. There were a few regiments of new levies just arrived, a thousand strong; all
provided with overcoats, and looking finely in their new, clean clothes--quite a contrast to
the old soldiers. In one of the old regiments on brigade drill we saw an officer, probably
a sergeant, in a checked knit undervest, his neck and part of his arms bare--commanding a company.
A sentry on guard before the quarters of the general in command, had great holes in both elbows
of his dirty jacket, and his shoes were untied. The brigades were generally of five regiments,
a new regiment being one, and composing fully two fifths of the line. It is not wholly, however,
by the casualties of the battle or the greater losses from exposure, overwork, and disease,
that the regiments are diminished. If a good blacksmith is found, he is detailed to the forge;
others are detached as ambulance drivers, or as hospital attendants or clerks. This thins the
ranks of the old regiments. It is surprising, however, to see how much better the veterans
will bear exposure than men coming fresh from home. The old regiments were frightfully diminished
by disease on the Peninsula; but I saw very few that could not rally more men than the 35th
Massachusetts, that had been out of the State only a little over a month. They had but three
hundred men of the original thousand. They left Washington without their knapsacks; and had
marched without even the shelter tents, officers and men alike bivouacking on the ground, wearing
the same clothes without a change. The long marches, the exposures, the excitement of battle,
and the unaccustomed food had disabled four hundred men; some of them undoubtedly never strong
enough to have enlisted, and who should have been rejected by the examining surgeons. The old
regiments, who had gradually been hardened to this life, and who had learned to thrive on the
soldier's fare, lost comparatively few in this way.

The brigade drills and the manoeuvres in line were not so well executed as we expected. There
was no practice in firing at a mark; probably from a want of ammunition. From accounts of officers
on the field of battle, it certainly is the case in our army that some of the fresh soldiers
will fire in the air, and even close their eyes. The Hythe system, as now taught in the English
army, and among the rifle clubs, makes excellent marksmen; and the greater part of the instruction
is without the use of powder. It is a pity it cannot be more extensively introduced in our army.

One does not expect to find the same training before the enemy as in the great French camps
of instruction. It was my good fortune to visit the camp of a portion of the great Crimean
army. The privates, besides their military drill, were exercised in running, leaping, fencing,
and boxing; and some sergeants were teaching dancing. I followed a regiment of the chasseurs
of Vincennes to their field of drill. For an hour or two they went through different manoeuvres
by the bugle, performing many of the movements at the double quick. Then came a rest; as soon
as that was ordered, the fine band of the regiment came forward and struck up a lively dance,
to the tune of which several of the privates amused and refreshed themselves by waltzing round
the field.

Returning, however, to our picturesque camp in this charming valley. There was no more striking
scene than when darkness came on and the thousand camp fires and lights in the tents were all
in sight. The rail fences, bought by the thoughtful quartermaster, and paid for as an army
supply, were used as fuel; a truly considerate act, for a quartermaster can buy fuel for the
army, but he cannot pay damages done to property. This same ground, now covered by our troops,
had been camped over by Lee's army; who had also used the fences, not even paying for them
in the worthless Confederate scrip. Soon after dark, the bright lights of the signal corps
appeared on the mountain north of the Maryland Heights, and messages were sent to McClellan's
headquarters. Flags are used in the day, and at night lanterns. The signal officer has two
lights; they are held one above the other, the lower one being stationary; moving the upper
light to the right means number one; moving the light to the left, number two; moving first
to the right and then to the left, number three; by lowering the upper light in front of the
under one, a fourth signal is given; and so on. There are about five numbers; and by the different
combinations of these five numbers, there is made a great number of signals, which can be read
by the officers who have the key. The mode is much the same as that used by our mercantile
marine with their signal flags. The signals are given very rapidly, and a few minutes suffice
for the sending of the messages.

Evening is the time for talk around the camp fires; and the conversation often turns upon our
rebellious brethren. Among our regular officers you meet the classmates and old companions
in arms of the rebels, and hear of little traits and peculiarities that only intimate acquaintances
can relate. Civilians who had known General Lee at Washington, have spoken of him as very formal,
and rather pompous in his manner, giving the impression that he was a man of more show and
pretence than abilities. We learned here, however, that, in Texas, or California, where he
was for a long time before he took his high position on Scott's staff, he was famous for marching
his men without the usual encumbrances of baggage, on the most severe expeditions against the
Indians, in the snow and cold of the winter. Stonewall Jackson has always been famed for his
peculiarities. When a young man, he was possessed with the idea that he was in danger of having
his limbs paralyzed, and he would pump on his arm for many minutes, counting the strokes, and
annoyed beyond measure by the interruptions of his companions breaking up his count. Our officers,
both regular and volunteer, who have been in actual battle, have a great respect for the rebel
leaders and soldiers; they speak very highly of their drill, and believe that straggling exists
to a less extent among them, in battle, than with us. From the rebel newspapers I should doubt
whether this is the case. One thing we have not considered, which has given the rebels a great
advantage in this contest. It is the large number of military colleges in the South; not like
our few private schools at the North, but well-endowed academies. In the summer of 1860, immediately
before the election of Lincoln, I visited the military academy at Lexington, Virginia. It was
supported at the expense of the State, with two hundred and more pupils, coming from the different
counties in proportion to their population. They were practised in the actual firing of cannon
and mortars; and every afternoon were drilled as infantry for about two hours, much of the
time at the double quick. The principal was a graduate of West Point; and he was assisted by
a respectable board of instructors. A good civil and military education, after the mode of
instruction at West Point, was afforded to the students. This institution had been in existence
for years; and one can readily appreciate the advantage that Virginia has in this war from
the graduates of this school. Alabama and several other of the Southern States have similar
colleges; while we at the North have been obliged to educate all our volunteer officers by
actual service.

The morning Stuart with his cavalry left Chambersburg, we rode forth for the battle field of
the Antietam. We noticed the disappearance of some of the camps of the infantry brigades. We
knew of the patrolling of the cavalry along the road we were pursuing, and found the picket
guards farther out, and passes and countersigns necessary where before we went unchallenged.
We were several hours in getting to the battle field, and stopped to get some refreshments
at a large brick farmhouse, where the battle on the left began. The hospital flag was still
flying over the building, though no patients had been there for a day or two. Twenty-seven
died in that one farmhouse from wounds received in that bloody fight. On the night of the battle,
cows, sheep, poultry, and fences disappeared before our cold and hungry troops. But since then,
though the house was in the neighborhood of several camps, the old lady and her daughters,
who alone were at home, had been undisturbed, except by the small pilferings of stragglers.

The great battle has been so well described by the correspondents of the newspaper press, and
by those who were over the field before we were, that I shall only mention a few incidents
to which our attention was called. The principal contest was on the right, west of the Antietam
river. Here Hooker with his army corps began the battle, and fought so long and splendidly.
Both armies crowded their forces to this part of the field. Sumner, whose troops had been with
their belts on since three in the morning, brought up his large corps, drawn up in three columns,
forty paces apart, to reënforce Hooker's hard-pressed soldiers, who were retreating before
the fresh and overwhelming reënforcements of the enemy. In less than an hour, the whole of
Sumner's corps was swept back, broken and entirely routed, and never appeared in the field
again; the column in the rear not being in position to fire a gun, but losing as many men as
those in front.

The manner in which General Sumner brought his troops into action has been severely criticized,
even by officers of his own corps; whether justly or not, it is difficult to decide. No commander
was more confided in by his soldiers than Sumner. 'He has risen from the ranks, and been through
all the grades of the service,' 'He knows how to treat his men,' were expressions constantly
heard. General Hooker's reputation as a fighting general was admitted everywhere; his coup
d'oeil of the battle field was represented as most excellent.

It was also on the right that the desperate fighting in the woods and the deadly struggle at
close quarters in the cornfield with such fearful loss of life took place. An officer who was
on the battle fields of Magenta and Solferino, says that the scene here was much more horrible.
Many spoke of the scenes they saw with a shudder. They could not throw off the impression made
by the masses of wounded and dead; the wounded often lying neglected and helpless under the
dead, sometimes crushed to death by the wheels of our own artillery.

Our left at Antietam was far off from the right: in these days of guns of long range the line
of battle is longer than it was formerly. At Waterloo the English occupied a front of less
than two miles. In this battle ours was about four miles. In the battle of Solferino the engagement
extended for eighteen miles.

The contest on the left was fought by General Burnside with only one army corps, the ninth.
The battle at this place was a most gallant affair, but has excited less attention than the
bloody fight on the right. In the dusty, tiresome march through Maryland, in the skirmishes
in and around Frederick, during the glorious hearty welcome our troops received in that old
town, the advance, consisting of both Hooker's and Reno's army corps, had been commanded by
Burnside. With them he had fought the successful and brilliant battle of South Mountain, coming
to us so gratefully after the disastrous repulse and retreat of Pope. Reno had unfortunately
fallen, and General Burnside took command of his corps: it was his old force from North Carolina,
increased by General Cox's Kanawha troops, and some new regiments, in all a little short of
twenty thousand men. On the morning of the battle, Burnside took his station on the east side
of the Antietam, in a field overlooking the country on the other side of the river. The gathering
of his staff to their breakfast brought the shells of the enemy in their midst, and compelled
a change of position to the rear of some haystacks. On the same hill was placed a formidable
battery of rifled cannon, throwing twenty-pound shot, commanded by Lieutenant Benjamin, of
the regular artillery. The guns are so heavy that they each have eight horses to drag them,
and the caissons have six. There was unfortunately a short supply of ammunition, and the battery
was fired slowly during the day. The guns were well placed and served, and aimed with wonderful
accuracy. Shells were planted in two of the enemy's ammunition carts, blowing them to pieces;
and the fire of cannon was so hot that it compelled a rebel battery two miles off, coming down
a road to get into position, to wheel round and gallop over the hill. Proud, indeed, were the
Lieutenant's men of their exploits on that day, and wonderful stories they told of their famous
battery.

The Antietam in front of Burnside was deep, not fordable, flowing in the bottom of a charming
valley, and overshadowed by trees. There was a solid stone bridge over it, with three arches,
rising picturesquely in the centre, with stone parapets on the sides, the parapets spreading
at both ends of the structure. One would almost imagine that it was an old Italian bridge transported
to our wooden-building land. The side of the valley held by the rebel troops rises sharply,
not densely wooded, but covered by large trees thickly placed, as in an old English park. Along
the top of this ridge ran a solid stone wall, thicker and of heavier stones than any we saw
in the neighborhood. Where the wall ended rifle pits had been dug. Behind the massive trunks,
and in the branches of the old trees, behind this wall and in the pits, were crowded the sharpshooters
of the rebels. The ascent from the bridge out of the valley on the enemy's side, was too steep
for a straight road up the ridge. If ever a bridge could be defended, that should have been;
the only disadvantage the rebels were under was that they could not sweep it with artillery.

Our left had vainly attempted to cross the bridge; twice had they been repulsed. On the right
our troops were hard pressed; much of the ground gained in the morning had been lost; Hooker
was wounded, Sumner's corps routed, Mansfield killed, and his corps beaten back. Then McClellan
ordered Burnside to take the bridge, and hold it at any cost. Burnside sent some troops farther
down the river, where it was fordable. He called up one of his old brigades that had been with
him in North Carolina, saying, if any brigade could take the bridge, that one would. It was
composed of the 51st New York, 51st Pennsylvania, 21st Massachusetts, and a Rhode Island regiment;
on their colors were inscribed, 'Roanoke,' 'Newbern,' two of our most glorious victories. With
these veteran troops was the 35th Massachusetts, a new regiment that had left home only a month
before, but who nobly did their part. Down went the 51st Pennsylvania in column in the advance,
at the run, shouting and crowding and firing as they hurried across the bridge, bringing down
the rebels from the trees, suffering themselves, but never halting. They crossed and deployed
on the other side. Next came the 35th Massachusetts, over the bridge, up the valley, then forming
in line of battle on the top of the small hill commanding the stream. The enemy were drawn
up before them, quite a distance off, on the top of the next hill. Every inch of ground between
was commanded by the rebel fire; but our brave fellows charged on up this hill, driving the
foe before them: they did not halt there, for another still higher hill, which could now for
the first time be seen farther on, rose up before them. Nothing daunted, they followed up their
charge, and drove the enemy from this hill, and took this most commanding position. There they
halted, close to Sharpsburg, almost in the rear of the rebels. Some of our troops even penetrated
to Sharpsburg itself, and were taken prisoners. A short distance farther would have cut off
the enemy's direct retreat to the Potomac. Rebel troops were seen hurrying on the road to the
river. Our men were now fired upon by artillery, and attacked by fresh bodies of infantry coming
up, as the enemy say in their account, from Harper's Ferry. Our brave fellows, however, stood
their ground, waiting for reënforcements, which Burnside called for. But McClellan, unfortunately,
dared not throw in his reserves; his object had probably been gained in making a diversion
from the hard contested field on our right. Our gallant fellows had to stand there unsupported
until their ammunition gave out; they fired their sixty rounds of ammunition, collecting all
they could from their dead and wounded comrades, and then began to retreat. Benjamin's battery
of artillery was also short of ammunition, and could not support them. Our brave boys only
retreated to the next hill, not to the hill above the Antietam, and then lay on their arms
during the night, and there they stayed during the next day, expecting the order to advance.

Little mounds of earth, covering fallen heroes, point out the course of our soldiers all the
way from this side of the Antietam to the top of the farthest hill. Here our men were so much
more exposed than the rebels that our loss was greater than theirs. On the right the rebel
loss was much the larger.

In the battle beyond the river, the Hawkins Zouaves, another of the regiments distinguished
in North Carolina, captured a rebel battery at the point of the bayonet. In the rebel account
we are told how the brave General Toombs, with a whole brigade, retook the battery and defeated
this single regiment, which they magnify into an immense force.

General McClellan, with all his knowledge and great skill and success in defensive warfare,
as shown in his Peninsular campaign, after our defeat at Gaines's Mill, is wanting in the rapidity
of comprehension and audacity which are necessary components of the highest military talent.
He waits for too many chances, and fears any risk.

In the battle of Antietam, he had fifteen thousand fresh men under Fitz John Porter in the
centre. The enemy had probably used their last soldier, for the correspondent of the Charleston
Courier, who has given the best rebel account of the battle, impliedly states that they had
no reserves left. Ignorant of our unused troops, he laments the want of a few more rebel men,
and says, that if only five thousand of their stragglers, who were on the way to Winchester,
had been present, a most decisive rebel victory would have been obtained. If McClellan had
added Fitz John Porter's reserve to Burnside's soldiers, he would have had nearly thirty-five
thousand men flanking the enemy, already beaten, and threatening their retreat across the Potomac.
Who knows what those fresh men might not have done? Many think that the doubtful victory would
have ended in the most brilliant decided success, and the stone bridge of Antietam would have
stood in history by the side of Arcola and Lodi. But let us be thankful for what we did achieve:
never should the nation forget how a retreating, discouraged, defeated, demoralized, and even
mutinous army, that had suffered terribly in killed and wounded, and lost prisoners and large
numbers of cannon and material, was again reformed, and marched triumphantly against a victorious
foe; achieved on Sunday the brilliant victory of South Mountain, and on Wednesday fought the
bloody fight of Antietam. There we captured cannon, small arms, and standards, and lost none.
Many have forgotten that ever since spring the rebels have boasted that the war was to be carried
within our territory; that they had begun this programme; and that General Lee in entering
Maryland had issued a boasting proclamation, promising to redeem it from a hated tyranny. If
he had succeeded, and defeated McClellan, as he had beaten Pope between Manassas and Washington,
we had no reinforcements or forts to prevent his march to Philadelphia. McClellan's presence
stirred the common soldier as Napoleon's did, and it was this unbounded enthusiasm which he
excited, that saved the nation when he took command at Washington. I know of nothing that made
me more indignant than the folly of some ladies who, among his soldiers on the Potomac, decried
and denounced him as an imbecile. What treachery can be worse than the attempt to destroy the
confidence of the soldiers in their leader, when their lives depend upon his judgment and skill,
and there can be only dejection and despair when that judgment and skill are doubted.

Upon our return from the battle field to Pleasant Valley, we heard that orders to McClellan
to advance had come from Washington. The only answers to inquiries when the advance would take
place, were ominous shakings of the head or shrugs of the shoulders, which were indicative
of anything but belief in a speedy movement. We also heard of the appointment of General Burnside
to the command of three army corps, the precursor of a greater command yet to come. We have
in our new commander-in-chief a general who has an implicit belief that our cause is just,
and a trust in Providence that he will make the just cause victorious. In General McClellan
we had also a general who believed in Providence, and who has always shown great reverence
in his writings. General McClellan is reticent. You can, however, tell somewhat of the opinion
of the head of the house from his children; and judging from the tone of belief among the General's
military family, from that long delay after Antietam, it was pretty evident that in his opinion
the South cannot be subdued, and that the question between us was a matter of boundary. With
General Burnside we have no such belief. His faults, if they are faults, are those of the bold
general, not of the Fabian order. At Newbern he brought at once into the fight every soldier
he had, not keeping one in reserve; and he gained the battle by his audacious policy. And it
is the wonder to this day of every one who has been over the battle field, that the enemy should
have been beaten. With all this boldness, he is a modest man; twice before having refused the
chief command: once when it was offered to him at the time Pope was appointed; again when McClellan
took it before Washington. Of a commanding figure, every inch a soldier, one cannot look upon
him and his kindly eye without instant admiration. His modest way of riding among the men,
alone or attended by a single orderly, will make him beloved by our republican soldiers. He
was so then, and 'Old Burn,' as they familiarly called him, was everywhere heartily received.
By the way, McClellan's nickname on the Peninsula was 'George,' and not 'Little Mac,' as is
generally supposed.

General Burnside, we believe, is a good judge of men. The generals he selected for his North
Carolina expedition, though previously unknown, and but captains in the service, have already
distinguished themselves and justified his choice. General Foster, now commanding the department
of North Carolina, has shown himself an able, active general. All who have been connected with
him, speak highly of him. Though not a Massachusetts man, he has a peculiar penchant for Massachusetts
troops: he was first at Annapolis, and picked out for the first brigade the Massachusetts soldiers.
Recently, through the Governor, he has obtained some eight or ten more regiments, and in some
way or other he has the crack ones.

General Reno, who was Burnside's second brigadier, has made a reputation that will live forever
in his country's history. At the battle of Roanoke the little general, but a month before a
captain of ordnance, stood up fearlessly in the swamp amid his men, when they were lying down
by his direction, and coolly gave his orders and encouraged them, entirely regardless of the
balls flying round him on every side. In Pope's retreat, and amid disaster and defeat, he acquired
new reputation by his skill, energy, and daring. A Virginian by birth, he was truly a loyal
man; and, unlike some generals of our army corps, obeyed orders, and did all that could be
done for the country and the general in command. His testimony that Pope's dispositions were
good, if he had only been obeyed, should weigh much in that general's favor. After the victory
of South Mountain, he was reconnoitring the enemy, when he fell by a random shot, which came,
so those who were in the action say, from some soldier of our force. Lyon, Kearny, Reno, gone!
Have we three such men left?

General Park, an accomplished soldier, who particularly distinguished himself at the battle
of Newbern, was General Burnside's third brigadier. The country will feel renewed confidence
from his remaining with our new commander as chief of staff.

On the morning we left the camp, a squad from a new regiment just arrived had been detailed
for the guard at headquarters; one of the sentries was smoking his pipe as he marched up and
down; another, who should have been patrolling his beat, was seated on the ground, cleaning
his musket with a piece of wash leather he pulled from his pocket. The General was not near
to stop these unsoldierly occupations. We came to the opinion that the boys in that regiment
had never been to a country muster; but they were stout fellows and looked like fight.

At Sandy Hook, on the day of our return, we had to wait until nine in the evening for the train
to Baltimore. Stuart's cavalry had been over the road in the morning, making their escape into
Virginia. They dared not stay to do mischief; our forces were at all the important points.
Considering the immense supplies in the rear of the army, Stuart did very little harm; his
eight hundred fresh horses were not worth the risk he ran. If he could have seized our supplies
at Monocacy Station, and burnt the bridge there, he would have inflicted a serious loss upon
the army. The nature of his raid seemed well understood, and there was no apprehension then
of the enemy's holding the railroad; for the train from Baltimore had passed over the restored
rails a few hours after the retreating troopers. At every important point we found soldiers,
and near Frederick we were glad to hear that seven of the sick troopers, used up by their hard
service, had fallen behind and been taken. We learned that General Pleasanton with some of
our cavalry was in pursuit, and there were several stories about an engagement: the firing
of cannon had been heard. General Pleasanton at that time was held in very little esteem, and
seemed to have particularly disgusted those who had served under him, and was often cited as
an example of McClellan's lack of judgment in men. He appears since to have acquired a newspaper
reputation for ability and energy. I only hope that it is deserved, and that the opinions we
heard so often were not well founded.

We arrived at the Baltimore depot at four in the morning amid a rain, and found it occupied
by some one or two thousand soldiers, standing and sitting about in their blue overcoats with
their arms stacked. Not a carriage could be obtained, and so, shouldering our bag in military
fashion, we marched for the Eutaw House. At the door was stationed a guard, marking it as the
headquarters of Major-General Wool. We passed by unchallenged; in our bag, however, we had
rebel ammunition: a loaded shell fired at our men as they were crossing the stone bridge at
Antietam. Fortunately the fuse had gone out, and it remained a trophy for one of the despicable
Down-East Yankees. We heard the old General was still the centre of attraction to the pretty
secesh ladies who had friends or relatives in durance vile in Fort McHenry. The veteran hero,
though rich, wears a uniform that shows the marks of service. That, however, does not prevent
the constant presents of delicious fruit and beautiful flowers, and invitations to drive to
the fort, from those bewitching belles of Baltimore: whereat some strong Union people grumble
loudly.

AMERICAN DESTINY.

II.

The law under consideration is exemplified in the social, industrial, and political development
of the United States. There is a manifest difference, however, between the history of our civilization
and that of Europe, though not in the least affecting the integrity of the law. The people
of our nation were not derived directly from a rude and primitive condition, as were those
of the Old World. The history of our civilization is, in its origin, coördinate with European
civilization in the seventeenth century, after modern intellect had been fairly aroused, and
the national organizations had been quite fully developed. The chaos and barbarism which the
history of European civilization presents, and the play of antagonizing forces through the
long period of centuries, resulting in some degree of political order and unity, does not belong,
except as an introduction, to the history of American civilization. Ours is a branch from the
European, after it had been growing for several hundred years.

During the period which intervened between the Declaration of American Independence and the
adoption of the Constitution of the United States, there was no formal and permanent bond of
union between the several States; it was provisional,--they were held together by outside pressure
and a common interest in the cause of independence. The settlement of a general government
for all the States was a crisis, not only in the affairs of this country, but of the whole
civilized world, as we believe the future will most fully reveal. To the responsible statesmen
of that day, this was a period of intense solicitude, such as we can realize only by an effort
of mind to place ourselves in their situation, and bring before us the magnitude of the objects
to be attained, and the difficulties to be overcome. There was then, as now, a diversity of
interests to be harmonized; but there was one interest, which, in its political relations,
requires to be characterized by a stronger term than that of 'diversity.' Between chattel slavery
and free labor there is 'irrepressible' antagonism, and there could be no real union--no blending
of the twain; but the gulf was bridged, under the pressure of necessity, as the wisdom of the
times could best devise. It was, indeed, well done. Union was the great object to be accomplished--it
was the highest, the most comprehensive principle that could enter into the motives of political
action--it was even a necessity of the current civilization, and must needs subordinate all
minor principles and interests; and we owe a debt of gratitude to those who so nobly wrought
this glorious Union out of colonial chaos and isolation.

The instrument of this Union has been characterized by well-meaning, but one-idea minds, as
a 'covenant with death, and an agreement with hell,' simply because it effected the union of
free with slave States. This method of characterizing the Constitution of our country--as noble
a document for its time and place as the world has ever seen--can well be excused, since it
has no doubt been done in utter obliviousness of the importance of the principle of political
unitization. The original consummation of this Union was a great step in political progress;
it was an achievement of the master principle of political movement; and God wills that no
part of the advantage then gained in the struggle of Destiny shall ever be given up!

But while unity is thus exemplified in the history of our Government, the phenomenon of differentiation
is also manifest. The functions of government have greatly multiplied since its first organization;
the 'division of labor' process has been going on, and new departments and bureaus have been
established. While I write, the expediency of another department, that of agriculture, is being
agitated in Congress. The Department of the Interior has been quite recently created, and new
bureaus in this department, and in others, are being created from time to time, by act of Congress,
to meet new wants in the administration of our Government. And what is true in this respect
of the General Government is, also, true of the State Governments; for there, too, do we find
the development of new functions, and the creation of new official organs to execute the same.

This growth of the country at large, from which these new demands on the Government arise,
is to be seen very distinctly in the industrial and educational elements of society. While
these interests increase in magnitude and variety, and the people are becoming more concerned
therein, the Government assumes a responsibility in regard thereto, which can only be discharged
by the multiplication of the administrative appliances. These new governmental activities arise
from the popular will, as moulded and expressed through the more intelligent and enterprising
of its actors. They choose to have it so. It is found convenient, in the promotion of certain
general interests, to appeal to a power which is presumed to embody the elements of order and
authority in the execution of its will. In the construction of railroads and telegraphs, capitalists
must coöperate with the Government in relation to questions of right, which, in many cases,
can only be settled by a regularly constituted tribunal. State agricultural societies appeal
to State Governments for coöperation, and when received, the industrial interests of the country
are advanced thereby. We all know what State Governments have done for the cause of education.
Sections of country which would at this hour have been in a state of almost semi-barbarism
have--thanks to our educational policy--been redeemed from their prejudices against intelligence
and education, and been made to step into line with the advancing columns of civilization.
The same civilizing influences, precisely, have been brought to bear, by the active part which
Government has taken in the improvement of all the means of travel, trade, and the transmission
of intelligence. The intelligent and active few have thus advanced the interests of the many.
In districts of country which have been without the channels of commerce except in a very rude
condition, and where the enterprise of the people was inadequate to their improvement, the
Government has reached out its strong arm and redeemed them from their primitive rudeness,
thereby promoting the physical condition, the enlightenment, and the culture of the people.
There are plenty of instances on record, in which improvements of this kind--of roads, for
example--have been made against the will and in spite of the opposition of the people most
to be benefited thereby; and had they not been related under the same government to communities
more intelligent and enterprising than themselves, they would have remained in an isolated
and semi-barbarous condition.

Now, while we readily discern the increase in the objects and in the machinery of government,
we cannot so readily discern the abatement of governmental interference with the private affairs
of the individual, as in governments of longer standing. There has not been time for great
changes in this respect; and then, in the earliest legislation of our country there was comparatively
so little that was obnoxious to individual freedom, that there has been less occasion for the
change in question. The Blue Laws of Connecticut are proverbial for their intermeddling with
private life. There has been no change in this respect so marked since the organization of
our Government as there was before; but so far as there has been any, it is in favor of the
exemption of the individual, in ordinary times, from legal interference. The entire atmosphere
of American society is becoming more liberal as general education advances; and this, in turn,
acts upon the legislative and executive functions of the Government, to make the laws and the
execution of the same more acceptable to a cultured people. The 'Maine Law,' earnest and benevolent
as it was in purpose, and to all seeming so obviously founded in the right of society to protect
itself, could not be sustained against this tendency in government to let the individual alone
in the affairs of his private life.

We have observed that there is a concentration of different industrial and commercial functions
in different sections of the country, whereby these sections become dependent upon each other,
and the unity of the whole, to a certain extent, made inevitable. Now, we insist that political
economy and the greatest well-being of all require that the political jurisdiction should,
as far as possible, be commensurate with that commercial, industrial, and social dependence
which works itself out to a large degree of fulfilment in spite of the obstructions interposed
by the contractedness and isolation of political organization.

As we have seen, this dependence of one industrial section upon another, and of one commercial
centre upon another, as the result of commercial and industrial specialization, is becoming
more and more marked as a development of human progress. All this increases the need for more
extensive political organization, while at the same time it makes it possible.

It will readily be perceived that since industrial and commercial development is necessitating
dependence and unity, it is equally true that the natural varieties of soil and climate are,
also, conditions of like dependence and unity. When these diversities of soil in different
sections are fully developed, and the exchange of products readily made through improved commercial
facilities, and human wants multiplied by means of civilized culture, agricultural specialization
creates the demand, not for political division and isolation, but for more extensive organization.
That New England manufactures is no reason that she should separate her government from that
of the other States, but just the reverse. That the Middle States are more distinctively a
mining region, and the great West agricultural, is no reason that their general government
should be distinct, but precisely the reverse. That the South produces cotton, rice, and sugar,
is no reason for her seceding from the Union, but exactly the reverse. These diversified interests,
we repeat, create interrelation and dependence, unitizing the commercial and industrial polity;
and the political organization should, as far as possible, be coextensive therewith. There
are physical necessities which prevent the formation and maintenance of a comprehensive political
organization in the earlier stages of civilization, but these never have obtained in the United
States, and every hour's improvement carries us farther beyond them.

All the results of a progressive civilization are constantly complicating the dependence and
interrelation of various sections of our country. Roads, railroads, canals, and lines of telegraph,
by their connections and intersections, are so many bonds of union between the various districts
of our country--so many bonds of union between the various States of the confederacy--and forbid
its dissolution. Even Nature conspires with civilization to the same end. The great valleys
and rivers running north and south are so many natural ties, which the most incorrigible perverseness,
on the part of man, could alone prevent from performing the office to which they seem so happily
adapted in the play of the civilized elements.

As we have seen in our brief view of Europe, greater political unitization has been the result
of growth in civilization. In the United States, all natural, commercial, and industrial bonds
of union are becoming more fully developed. This evinces the direction of progress.

What, in the light of this view, are we to think of the doctrine of 'secession'?--of secession,
that political dogma of recent development, which, if made practical, would destroy all political
unity of greater compass than a State--a State, the idol of Southern political worship. It
would break any confederacy into fragments, and prevent the consummation of those great unities
which an advancing civilization demands. This doctrine of 'secession' would remand us back
to the condition of affairs in Europe during the twelfth century, before commerce, the Crusades,
and the waking up of intelligence had commenced the movement of national organization. The
Southern States have a barbarian institution in their midst, but, not satisfied with that,
they would inaugurate the practical operation of a new political doctrine, which must introduce
still another element of barbarism, and interpose an additional obstacle to the progress of
civilization. Shall this be? It is opposed to the political tendency of the times; and the
common sense of mankind should forbid the acceptance of a political solecism in the organization
of government, which virtually annuls the unity and integrity of the government itself.

There are crises, however, in human development, when the movement is rapidly set forward;
and others, when it may be as suddenly arrested or thrown back, requiring long periods to regain
the lost ground, preparatory to a new advance. Our Union, only a brief while since, appeared
to be upon the point of irreparable rupture; the division of this great Union into minor geographical
districts, like the European monarchies, seemed to be imminent. The determination of the South
to secede; a large portion of the influential press at the North pleading their cause; Buchanan
favoring secession; many in the North, then, and for a long time previous, in favor of a 'peaceable
separation;' but--thanks to the blind impetuosity of 'Southern chivalry'--with the fall of
Sumter, and the inauguration of the war, the only hope for this Union revived! Wicked or foolish
people have said that the bombardment of Sumter was the death-knell of the Union;--we believe
it was just the reverse;--as the turning point of a great crisis, it signalled the birth of
a new era. It threw the trimming and temporizing politicians of the North off their old tracks,
and tore their platforms from under them; their antipathies were suddenly neutralized; their
prejudices vanished; they were unexpectedly floating anew on the sea of public sentiment; the
opinions of influential men were subject to a new ordeal; and the views of many an entire clique,
faction, and party were revolutionized in a day. Northern pride was wounded; Anglo-Saxon energy
was aroused; there was a demand for determination and 'pluck,' and the result is known to all.
Secession, in the Free States, was suddenly transformed; there was a grand uprising for the
vindication of a great principle of political development; and nearly a million of armed men
of all parties are now in the field; and God grant that they may be able to overcome the abettors
of a barbarian policy!

But if the cause of patriotism and civilization should fail in this struggle, what will be
the consequences? Standing armies, stronger governments, leagues, and ruptures, internecine
wars, European interference. Let this division of our once happy country be consummated now,
and there can be no reunion for ages. The Southern nation recognized by European Governments,
treaties and alliances formed, and we are involved in European complications through which
the separation will be perpetuated. And this disunion made permanent, others will develop themselves,
and in time be consummated. It is the interest of the reigning dynasties in Europe to see our
nation dismembered: the South would be our rival; and we should not have power to enforce union
hereafter. When a politico-geographical weakness is developed along the Rocky Mountains, the
Pacific States will not be without ambitious demagogues to attempt the establishment of an
independent organization on the Pacific. Another fracture may be developed along the Alleghanies,
and the great agricultural West may set up for itself among the nations. New England may be
seized with a like madness, and unworthily aspire to a separate national existence. With all
these petty nations on this continent, there must be standing armies, leagues, and complications,
as in Europe. Diplomacy, with its intrigues, and wars to maintain the 'balance of power,' will
make up the great body of national history and absorb those energies which should be employed
in advancing the means of human well-being.

But we will not speculate upon probabilities so remote. We will presume the success of rebellion,
and one nation south, another north. The evil would still be very great. There must be armed
thousands maintained by the two Governments to be ready for war at any moment. Two such nations,
even if both were free, and still less with slavery in one of them, could not exist by the
side of each other without frequent broils and collisions. Standing armies exhaust the resources
of nations and retard the progress of civilization by a double result. They withdraw able-bodied
men from the productive energies of the country, and are at the same time a tax upon the industrial
forces which remain. The enormous daily expense of the present war must give us some idea of
the cost of maintaining a standing army of two or three hundred thousand men even in times
of peace. This has done a great deal to retard the progress of Europe; and that we, as a nation,
have heretofore been free from this encumbrance, is doubtless one of the reasons why we have
made such rapid strides in so much that makes a nation great and happy. But standing armies
imply war, and the international wars of Europe have done much to exhaust her resources and
paralyze her prosperity. Guizot says--and we may see it in history for ourselves--that 'for
nearly three centuries, foreign relations form the most important part of history.' Foreign
relations, wars, treaties, alliances, alone occupy the attention and fill the page of history.
Sad result of the political divisions of a continent! Unhappy fruits of maintaining the balance
of power among neighboring nations! Let this continent be warned! And now is the crisis when
this warning needs most to be heeded. And even if this critical juncture should be safely passed,
we have need to guard against others, and these truths should be universally recognized as
elements of our national preservation. We may profit by the shipwreck of others, to avoid the
rock on which they split. There are causes clearly discernible in the history of Europe, for
the divisions of that continent, which do not now, and never have obtained here. Her political
institutions were developed out of the chaos of barbarism, and she had to unite smaller jurisdictions
into larger ones; and she did this as well as the status of civilization would permit at the
period when national organization was effected.

The facilities of intercourse between a people, for the transmission of intelligence, for travel
and transportation--those accompaniments of civilization which bring remote sections of country
near each other and bind them together; the resemblance or the difference of languages spoken;
the antipathies, prejudices, sympathies of the peoples--all these are elements which go to
determine the geographical extent of a nation. Original difference of language, local prejudices,
the want of civilization, contributed to limit the European nationalities to the small extent
of territory which, for the most part, they occupy. These causes have not operated against
us. Local distinctions on account of language do not even obtain here. There are no real causes
to contract the geographical boundaries of our Government; while, on the other hand, the constant
increase of facilities for the commercial and social intercourse of one section with another,
and the specializations of the agricultural, manufacturing, and commercial interests, in the
creation of dependence between different sections of the country, demand, in the name of science,
common sense, justice, and the good of the people, that this Government shall remain one and
undivided.

We cannot, therefore, afford to allow the present or any other rupture to become permanent,
and entail upon ourselves and our children all the disadvantages and calamities incident thereto.
It would not be wise to prepare the political stage of this country for the reënaction of the
tragedies of Europe. Better any sacrifice than this. Even if we should lose great battles,
or if European interference should threaten, it would be better to rally the people anew even
to the raising and equipment of millions of men, and sustain the war at this enormous cost,
rather than entail division and its necessary calamities on the future political life of this
continent. This war is costing immensely in men and property; but if, thereby, the integrity
of the Union can be maintained, it will be an economy both in men and means, if only a brief
period of the future be taken into the account. We are often reduced to a choice of evils.
War is a great evil, but it may prevent others still greater. The indiscriminate arming of
slaves and the spread of incendiary fires would be great calamities, but nevertheless justifiable,
if the only means of selfdefence, or of preventing still greater and more enduring calamities.
But there need be no violation of the ethics of war, no infringement of the rights of humanity.
The North is strong in its natural resources, strong in the justice of its cause: it has risen
to vindicate the cardinal law of civilization, and by this shall it conquer. There appeared
to Constantine a vision of the cross, with the motto, 'By this conquer.' Science has descended
in these last days to dwell among mankind. In her hand is a scroll which she unfolds before
the nations, and they read, 'Unity, the consummation of social and political destiny.' Thereupon,
turning to our nation in the hour of trial, she says: 'The time is approaching when the principle
of unitization must sweep a wider circle, and you are chosen to inaugurate this new era in
the destiny of nations. Thus far you have done well; be true to the work so happily begun;
carry it unflinchingly through this ordeal, and you will be the greatest Power for good upon
the earth. There must be an extension of political organization--a widening of the sphere of
political unity; and through your example and influence will the nations be gathered into a
larger fold.' And pointing to the scroll, she adds: 'Let 'Union' be eternally your motto; by
this conquer!'

If we should apply no other than a superficial interpretation to history, overlooking the great
laws by which development proceeds, and thence conclude that the world is to follow doggedly
in the footsteps of the past, we should anticipate a future far less beautiful in grand results
than Destiny has in store for the generations to come.

Are we to have the Empire of Rome or of Charlemagne over again? In the Roman Empire there were
no common interests; no representation; no communication among the people; no intersection
of the country by the networks of roads--only great military roads leading from province to
province; no specialization of industrial and commercial interests; no civilized dependence
of one part on another; no natural ties as yet developed to their real significance between
the several countries of the Roman Empire: it was held together by the strong and despotic
arm of Rome. The Empire of Charlemagne embraced the territory of Middle and Western Europe,
inhabited by barbarous peoples, isolated, warlike, and speaking different languages; there
were none of the civilized bonds of union; only the genius of Charlemagne held them together;
and upon his death the huge fabric he had reared naturally fell to pieces. The Spanish Empire
is but another instance showing that geographical and other elements of disconnection must
not overbalance those which relate remote sections to each other, and bind them together in
a common interest, else dissolution will be the result. In respect to the United States, all
these conditions are reversed. Every interest in the natural course of development points to
union--demands union, and, in the triumph of justice, shall have union.

Is there anything in the way of this union? Is there a morbid growth--a cause of irritation
and disease tending to dissolution? Then, it must be removed. Is ambitious and reckless demagoguism
to be apprehended? Then educate the people and diffuse science. But is there not still a worse
devil to be cast out? Where slavery is, you cannot educate the people, you cannot diffuse science;
and without enlightenment there can be no political justice, since unprincipled demagogues
will sway all political destiny. Slavery cannot always exist side by side with freedom; it
is the natural enemy of union, the enemy of civilization. Prominent secession leaders have
admitted that slavery is the cause of this war, boasting at the same time that the confederate
constitution is founded on a scientific distinction of races. Without slavery there could be
no sufficient motive for the independent national existence of the South. Had there been no
slavery, there had been no civil war. This is, at the present time, the political significance
of the institution. There is no safety but in its extinction--so far at least as the border
Slave States are concerned, in order to overthrow its power in the United States Senate, to
enlarge the sympathies of freedom, and weaken and circumscribe the chances for revolutionary
movements which slavery will be ready at any critical moment to precipitate against the Union.

If we have not misinterpreted the law of development, slavery, as it exists in this country,
is a morbid political condition, a social disease, which stands in the way of the natural course
of social evolution. In this law, therefore, is written the doom of slavery. The enlightened
world will not always permit it to blast the fair field of civilization by its poisonous presence.

There is a law of human movement by which predominating conditions extend and perpetuate themselves,
overcoming those which are weaker and on the wane. We observed this in our brief survey of
the feudal system. Freedom is now in the ascendant, and slavery must go down. And since secession
is the child of slavery, and both at war with the cardinal principles of progressive civilization,
it is meet that both should fall together.

This war may not directly extinguish slavery, and it may; we do not see the end. But if not
directly, we believe the war is, nevertheless, indirectly setting those forces into action
which will eventually extinguish the institution. If the 'confederacy' should be destroyed,
as, if not saved by foreign intervention, it certainly will be, slavery, if not already dead,
will be pent up, and, in that case, will soon die by its own hands.

Immediate interests control us more than those which are remote; interests which affect ourselves,
more than those which affect our descendants. Citizens of the Southern States, to save a petty
individual interest, are nursing in the bosom of society a malignant canker, which, if let
alone, must one day, in the inevitable course of destiny, eat into its vitals. Heroic treatment
will alone meet the demands of the case. It must be a surgical operation that will penetrate
to the very roots of the invading tumor.

The salvation of the South itself, as well as of the Union, hangs upon the extinction of slavery.
Indeed, the South has far more interest than the North in the restoration of political health
as the condition of political union; and she would see it so, if slavery had not made her blind.
The elimination of slavery would, in the end, be clear gain to her, while she would reap equally
with the North the advantages of union, and escape the disadvantages and calamities which,
as we have seen, must inevitably follow in the wake of confirmed disunion.

The writer of this article bases his opposition to slavery solely upon politico-scientific
grounds; he urges the recognition of a great law of human development, that its bearings on
human destiny may be fairly seen, and human endeavor more wisely directed to the achievement
of the end 'so devoutly to be wished.' The discussion of American Destiny in all its ramifications
would involve the discussion of the ultimate fate of the negro race on this continent; but
that is not within the range of our present purpose. We have aimed only to indicate the law
of development from the simple to the complex, over which a necessary unity at length prevails;
to show that this law obtains in the political as in all other realms; to insist that political
unity should enlarge its area as facilities for intercommunication permit, and the interrelation
of industrial, commercial, and social interests demand; that the jurisdiction of the political
unity should correspond to the extension of general interests, so far as may be possible in
the face of physical necessities not yet overcome in the progress of civilization. We would
apply the doctrine more especially to the present crisis in American affairs, to enable us
to realize that all our sacrifices to maintain the Union are fully warranted by the great principle
of human development which is involved in the contest.

If we have rightly interpreted history and the law, these sacrifices are justified by a double
consideration. The first, which is negative--to avoid the entanglements, broils, and conflicts
of neighboring nations, and the consequent exhaustion of the resources of civilization, through
which its progress would necessarily be retarded; the second, which is positive--to maintain
a vast political organization on this continent in accordance with the demands of a higher
civilization, as the only sure guarantee for the integrity of the 'Monroe doctrine,' and the
accomplishment of a great political mission, by reacting upon Europe, and leading her isolated
and fragmentary nationalities into a higher unity, involving order, authority, and the economy
of power.

It is the selfish interest of the crowned heads of the little nations of Europe to maintain
things as they are, with a principality and a palace for each puppet of royalty. Hence their
costly machinery for maintaining the 'balance of power.' There may have been a use for this
in the ignorance of the masses, when the extension of sovereignty was often but the increase
of despotism; but there is no such need in the advanced culture of the people and the progress
of civilization. Formerly there was no public sentiment; but, with the rise of civilized methods,
it became developed, and it has gradually enlarged its sphere, till, as a writer on dynamical
physiology remarks, 'we now hear of the public opinion of Europe.' (Draper.) And we believe
that, before this public sentiment, thrones are doomed to topple, and sceptres and diadems
to fall, to make way for the more liberal and comprehensive political organizations of an advancing
and triumphant civilization. And herein appears a glimpse of the political mission of the American
Union, destined itself to become still more comprehensive in the inevitable fluctuation and
change of the political elements. It is a hackneyed theme that all the natural features of
our country, its mountains, rivers, valleys, lakes, are on a grand scale; it is, therefore,
meet that we should lead the civilized world in the movement of political unity.

When Russia shall have more completely filled up the measure of her civilization, and general
intelligence shall have secured the liberty of the subject, and laid forever the ghost of political
absolutism, it may become the mission of the younger nation to infuse new life into the political
system of Europe. With such a nation on the East, and a great continental policy well advanced
in the Western World, Middle and Western Europe could hardly maintain its present divided,
discordant, and consequently feeble condition: there must be union then, if not before. With
Europe thus united, having outgrown the diplomatic intrigues and exhausting wars of jealous
and ambitious rulers, the dream of 'universal peace' may realize the inauguration of its fulfilment,
and civilization come to have a meaning which, as yet, is folded up in the bosom of prophecy--the
clearer prophecy, we believe, of science and history. We are confident that the prestige of
the past and the earnest of the future are for us and our cause; that our nation will not be
torn to pieces and sunk to the dead level of political imbecility, but will victoriously avouch
the integrity of American unity, and gradually gain the advance in the grand march of civilization,
and lead the nations for hundreds of years to come!

We may well be proud that we are Americans, and that our lot is cast in these times. Let us
never abase our position by the least approach to ignoble compromise; let us shrink from no
responsibility; but acquit ourselves as becomes an intelligent people conscious of a noble destiny!

THE BIRTH OF THE LILY.

   The Rose had bloomed in Eden. Odors new
   Entranced the groves; and iridescent birds,
   At this new birth of beauty, sudden rose
   In richest chorus, bearing up the balm
   Upon their beating wings. The bee had learned
   The place of golden sweets, the butterfly
   Loved well to dream within those crimson folds,
   And Eve had made a garland delicate,
   Of feathery sprays and leaves and drooping bells,
   And placed the Rose, the queen of bloom, above
   The centre of her brow. Thus she bound up
   The golden ripples that fell down and broke
   O'er her white breast, hiding the bosom buds,
   That never yet had yielded up their sweets
   To the warm pressure of an infant's lip.
   And Eve had bent above the glassy lake,
   Smiling upon her picture, pressing close
   The soft cheek of the Rose upon her own,
   And praising God for beauty and for life.

   But now a morn had come more strangely dear
   Than Eden yet had known. The sleeping wind
   Woke not to stir the fringes of the lake,
   Nor shook the odors from the scented plant.
   A silver, misty wreath closed fondly down
   Above the waveless tide. The insect world
   Lay waiting in the leaves, as though a spell
   Had hushed Creation; yet expectant thrills
   Ran through the silence, for the loaded air
   Grew lighter, purer, and the recent Rose
   Drooped her proud head in meekness, and the face
   Of heaven flushed with burning brilliancy,
   Above some coming wonder.

                                One by one
   The beasts and birds of Paradise came down,
   With noiseless movement, to the water's edge,
   And waited on the margin. Creatures huge,
   With honest, liquid eyes, and those that stepped
   With cushioned feet and feathered footfall, stole
   About the brink, with all the tribe that gave
   The forest life. The serpent reared its crest,
   Not yet polluted with the valley's dust,
   And stood like one with royal gems encrowned;
   While beast, and bird, and serpent turned to gaze
   Upon each other with inquiring eyes,
   And half-bewildered glance.

                      Then last of all
   Came Eve with Adam to the circling rim,
   Her fingers grasping roses, and her lip
   All beautiful with Love's own witchery.
   She stood and noted with admiring look
   The strength of Adam's form, the expansive chest,
   The sloping muscle, and the sinew knit,
   The firm athletic limb, and every grace
   Combined and joined in that first, perfect man.
   Then Eve, grown humble in her wondrous love
   Of Adam's beauty, knelt upon the turf,
   While her long hair fell down in shining waves,
   And pressed her lip upon his dew-washed feet:
   Then with her agitated fingers broke
   The foxglove pitcher from the stem, and stooped
   To fill it up for him; but quickly drew
   Her pearl-white hand away from the still lake,
   And held it o'er her heart, with such a look
   Of awe and mystery, as if a spell
   Was on the water, that she dared not break.

   So all was hushed and waiting; when, behold!
   A flash of gold shot from the silver East,
   A gush of new perfume spread through the grove,
   The Rose drooped lower, and the impatient birds,
   Loosed from restraint, sang in a strain refined
   Of dulcet clearness, such as those young bowers
   Had never heard before. The beast crouched down
   Upon the velvet turf, the serpent's crown
   Flashed richer splendor, and the angel-guard
   Whose fearful sword gleamed by the Tree of Life,
   His very plumes were tremulous with joy.

   Then Eve looked o'er the swelling wave, and, lo!
   The lake was overspread with blooming stars,
   Or snowy golden-centred cups, that rocked
   And spilled the choicest incense. Adam cried,
   'The Lily;' but the sweet voice at his side,
   Grown tremulous and faint with overjoy,
   Could only whisper, 'Purity.' Then quick,
   With restless hands, she culled the floral star--
   Queen of the wave--emblem of innocence,
   And hung it in the lion's matted mane,
   And twined it round the serpent's glittering neck;
   Thus humoring her fancy in the play
   Till half the morning hours had slipped and gone.
   Then, startled by the voice she loved so well,
   She left the sport, the creatures, and the flowers,
   And hastened back with Adam to the trees
   Where God was walking in the solemn shade.
   O mother frail, thou hast not known a tear!
   Thy spirit, clothed in simple innocence,
   Wears the true garb of bliss. Not yet thy hour
   Of sorrow and departure; nor the pangs
   And mystery of motherhood are thine!
   And yet, weak one! some day, because of thee,
   God's love shall give a Saviour to the world!

PART SECOND.

     'I have been young and now I am old, and I bear my testimony that I
     have never found thorough, pervading, enduring morality with any
     but such as feared God--not in the modern sense, but in the old
     child-like way. And only with such, too, have I found a rejoicing
     in life--a hearty, victorious cheerfulness, of so distinguished a
     kind that no other is to be compared with it.'--JACOBI.

CHAPTER I.

The first part of this narrative naturally closes with the termination of our hero's career
at Burnsville, and his establishing himself as a resident of New York.

Up to this period, he has had no great difficulty in making his conduct consistent with his
religious professions. He certainly has striven with a species of conscientiousness to do so,
and we repeat, he has achieved his object.

Now, however, he is embarking on a very different sea from the quiet, placid waters of his
village life. Here, Hiram Meeker, you will encounter many and frequent temptations to do wrong.
For you are soon to commence on your "own account," and then you must prepare for that mortal
struggle, in which none, without the grace of God to aid them, can come off victors.

Hiram understands this: that is, he has been educated to believe it. Surely he enjoys saving
grace. Who more constant at church and evening meetings; who prays longer and more vigorously
than he?

Let me repeat that Hiram has a strong desire to enter the kingdom of Heaven, and thinks that
all the chances are in favor of his doing so. But this desire is of the same nature as his
wish to become rich. It is founded on the determination to promote the fortunes of the individual
me, here and hereafter. It leads him to treat as a principle the statement of fact, that "honesty
is the best policy;" and his policy is--Self. He can practically master the theory of cause
and effect as to what is going on here. And since he believes he will secure a good position
in the world to come by strict observance of the "ordinances," he considers himself all right
there.

It is with entire complacency, then, that Hiram Meeker sets sail in New York. He is young,
and, as the word goes, handsome; with good health, strong nerves, an enduring frame, and excellent
constitution. He is well educated, and has a remarkable capacity for affairs, with sufficient
experience in business to qualify him for any mercantile career he chooses to enter on. Moreover,
in all the relations of life, he professes to be governed by the highest possible principle--Christian
principle; and claims to be, indeed really is, at least theoretically, a believer in the truths
of our holy religion. Why is it, then, reader, you have already taken such a prejudice against
Hiram? For I know, as it were instinctively, that you are prejudiced against him. Indeed, I
confess that in preparing his history for the press, I have unconsciously permitted certain
comments to creep in, indicating my own feelings toward the young man. But, in fact, I could
not help it, especially when I came to narrate Hiram's course toward Sarah Burns.

But here in New York, I begin to feel a painful interest for young Meeker. He is at the "parting
of the ways." Up to now, there has been no great strain on his moral sense, while he has not
been altogether insensible to humanizing influences. He has been thus far in the service of
others, and had wisdom enough to understand it was best for him to serve with fidelity. Thus,
his sense of duty did not conflict with his interests, and he won golden opinions from all.

Probably, when he left Burnsville, but one person thoroughly knew him--that person was Sarah
Burns. For it is given to those whose hearts are honestly devoted, in time to learn and fully
comprehend the nature of the hearts brought in contact with theirs.

The young ladies universally recalled their delightful flirtations with Hiram with a sort of
pleasurable regret, in which no angry feelings toward him were mingled. Even Mary Jessup looked
back with a sentimental sigh, but not with any feeling of bitterness, to the period when she
was so happy with "young Meeker, boarding at their house." The Hawkins girls still severally
had their secret hopes in the future. [As to the widow Hawkins, I cannot say.] But nobody understood
the young man except Sarah Burns. He knew that, and when he drove away from her door, he felt
he was found out.

I am getting from my subject, which is Hiram's dangerous situation, now that he has reached
New York. One thing much to be regretted is that he has resolved, at least for the present,
to adjure society, in his entire devotion to his main purpose. This is an alarming feature.
For notwithstanding, in his intercourse with the sex, he had sought entirely his own pleasure,
still it was not without its qualifying influences. His mind was diverted from a perpetual
thought of how he should get rich, and nature (I mean the nature common to us all) was permitted
to have a certain sway.

When Hiram stepped foot in the metropolis, he cut off these diverting elements. He decided,
and he had long and carefully considered it, that in the strife in which he was soon to enter,
he should require all his time, all his faculties. For this reason, he determined to accept
Mr. Eastman's offer of board and lodging at his house, albeit his wife was shrewish and generally
disagreeable. He no longer permitted the gay throng in Broadway to move his nerves or excite
his senses. And thus all these secondary impulses and emotions and sentiments yielded to the
one main controlling purpose.

Yes, Hiram Meeker, I feel a painful interest in your situation. I see that, once entered on
your career, there will be no departure or deviation or pause in it. As in metal poured into
the mould, which, while it remains in a fluid state, is capable of being converted into other
forms, but which, after a time, fixes and becomes unchangeable,--so, in the life of every human
being, there is a period when the aims and purposes are fixed and the character is settled
forever. With some, this comes earlier, with others later; but it comes inevitably to all of us.

It seems to me Hiram is fast approaching this epoch, and this is why my interest in him becomes
painful. For after this--but I will not anticipate.

CHAPTER II.

The first thing which Hiram undertook after getting settled at his boarding place, was to decide
what church to attend. This was a matter which required a great deal of deliberation, and week
after week he visited different churches of his own faith.

Mr. Bennett, with his family, went to an Episcopal church. He took the liberty, one day, of
flatly advising his cousin to cut Presbyterianism, and go with him.

'The fact is, Hiram, I can't stand the blue lights; they make a hypocrite of you, or a sniveller.
Now, I don't profess to be a good person, but I think, after all, my neighbors know about where
to find me. As to the Episcopalians, they give us good music, good prayers, and short sermons.
They don't come snooping about to find out whether you go sometimes to the theatre, or if any
of your family practise the damnable sin of dancing at parties. They mind their own business,
and leave you to mind yours.'

'What is their business?' asked Hiram.

Mr. Bennett, taken a little aback, hesitated a moment; then he replied, 'Why, to preach and
read the service, and perform church duties generally.'

'Well,' said Hiram, 'I always thought it was a part of a minister's duty to look after the
spiritual welfare of every one of his church, and to visit the families, and converse with
all the members.'

'You forget you're not in the country, where everything is got up on an entirely different
basis,' replied Mr. Bennett. 'You won't find much 'pastoral' work here, even among the blue
lights. They confine themselves to preaching brimstone sermons from the pulpit and at evening
lectures, and giving orders about the management of your family and mine, taking care that
nobody shall enjoy anything if they can help it. If you go to see a play, it is a plunge into
Tophet; if you permit your child to tread a quickstep to a lively tune, both you and your child
are fit subjects for the wrath to come.'

'I rather think you are mistaken when you say the Episcopalians approve of the theatre and
late parties, and so forth,' retorted Hiram. 'I have been told by two or three of that persuasion,
that the clergy object decidedly to all these things.'

'Gammon, Hiram--gammon for the country market. I tell you, I know that we can do just what
we please in the way of 'rational amusement,' as our clergyman calls it, and your people can't,
and I advise you to come over to the liberal side.'

Hiram shook his head.

'Well, if you won't, I recommend Dr. Pratt. He, I understand, permits a little fun occasionally;
then he makes use of our prayers, commits them to memory, you know; and latterly has put on
a gown, and has a little boy to open the door of his pulpit. I advise you to go there.'

'Thank you,' said Hiram; 'but I don't think I should relish that kind of a man. I prefer something
decided one way or the other.'

'Then take Dr. Chellis, he's your chap. Boanerges! a regular son of thunder. Egad, I believe
he does visit every soul of his flock--keeps them straight. The other evening he was invited
to a little gathering at the house of a new comer in his congregation--he always accepts invitations,
and they say he is very fond of oysters and chicken salad, though he drinks nothing but cold
water;--well, it happened the young folks wanted to get up a quadrille, began to arrange it
innocently enough before his face and eyes. Thereupon he jumped up in a huff, and flung himself
out of the house, and the next Sunday delivered an extra blast on the 'immoral tendencies of
the dance.'

'That's the man for me,' said Hiram, firmly.

Mr. Bennett regarded his protegé with a keen, inquisitive glance, with a view to fathom him,
if possible. It would seem that the result was unsatisfactory, for after a moment he exclaimed,
'Well, I confess I don't exactly see through you. It may be one sort of thing; it may be another;
but I can't say which.'

'It is a very simple matter, Mr. Bennett. I was brought up strictly, and believe in my bringing
up.'

'All right, if you mean it.'

'I do mean it. Besides, now that I have come to New York to reside, where I shall be subjected
to the numerous temptations of a city life, I shall need more than ever to be under the preaching
of just such a man as you describe Dr. Chellis to be.'

'Oh, don't; that is coming it too strong; now I think I do understand you. But, Hiram, drop
all that sort of thing. If you want to join Chellis's church, join it; but talk your cant to
the marines.'

Hiram was angry, but he said nothing.

'You must not be vexed, Hiram. You know I want to do you all the good I can. Recollect, if
you are smart, you have much to learn yet. Let me have your confidence, and I will advise you
according to my experience. If you really like severe preaching, you can't do better than go
in for the Doctor. He has the richest congregation in New York. Allwise, Tenant & Co., Starbuck
& Briggs, Daniel Story. Those are names for you; South-street men, too, in your line. They
are the pillars of Chellis's church; good men and true, if they are blue lights. Besides, there
are lots of pretty girls--tight little Presbyterian saints, with plenty of cash. Their fathers
can buy and sell Dr. Pratt's congregation and mine together. Yes, you are right; I wonder I
did not think of it. Go in for Chellis.'

Hiram was still silent. His heightened color and severe expression showed how little he relished
Mr. Bennett's conversation.

Nothing is so disagreeable to a person whose nature is not thoroughly genuine, but who claims
to act from proper motives, as to have another take it for granted he is not doing so.

He did not forget a word that Mr. Bennett had said, though. Indeed, he recovered his equanimity
so far as to thank him for his suggestions, and, wishing him good-day, he started for his place
in South street.

Mr. Bennett watched the young man as he walked up the street (the conversation occurred in
the doorway of H. Bennett & Co.'s establishment), and until he had turned the corner. 'Deep,
very deep,' he muttered as he stepped inside. 'He'll be 'round one of these days, or I am mistaken.'

Meanwhile Hiram continued on his way to the store, his cheeks burning under the influence of
Mr. Bennett's plain talk, but sensibly alive to the description of Dr. Chellis's church.

'Allwise, Tenant & Co., eh? and Starbuck & Briggs (Hiram had been but a few weeks in New York,
and already had learned to pay that almost idolatrous deference to great commercial names which
is a leading characteristic of the town); that will do. Plenty of rich girls,'--his heart began
to beat quick,--'plenty of rich girls. That's the place for me.'

Strange, in this soliloquy he said nothing about the spiritual advantages to be derived under
the preaching of so noted a divine as Dr. Chellis. Yet Hiram really liked strong preaching
and severe discipline. For he never appropriated any of the denunciations. Feeling perfectly
safe himself, it gratified him to hear the awful truths severely enforced on the outsiders.

We see, however, from this little conversation with himself, what was uppermost in Hiram's
mind. Subsequent inquiries, carefully made of various persons, fully confirmed the statement
of Mr. Bennett as to these little particulars in relation to Dr. Chellis's church and congregation.

Dr. Chellis himself was a person of extraordinary ability, great purity of character, and great
zeal. At this period he was about sixty years of age, but he possessed the earnestness and
energy of a young man. His congregation were very much attached to him, and it is true he exercised
over them a remarkable influence. Many people sneered, accusing them of 'being led by the nose
by their minister.' They were led, it is true, but not in that way: rather by their understanding
and their affections. For, strict and stern and severe as the 'old Doctor' appeared to be,
it was the sin he thundered against, not the individual. And those who were brought in more
intimate contact with him, declared that he was, after all, a kind, tender-hearted man.

His church were devoted to him. The majority were a severe, toilsome, self-denying company--too
much so, perchance; but of that I dare hazard no opinion: God knows. Like their minister, sincere,
indulging in no cant; without hypocrisy, practising in the world during the week the principles
they professed on Sunday to be governed by; a church deserving to be honored for its various
charities (it gave twice as much as any other in the city), for the personal liberality of
its members when called on to join in public or private subscriptions, and for the exalted
influence they exerted in affairs generally.

Into such a church, and among such a people, Hiram Meeker proposes to introduce himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

His first move was to call on Dr. Chellis without any introduction, and present his credentials
from the church in Burnsville, as well as an excellent letter from his minister, certifying
particularly as to his religious character and deportment. He thought by going as an unsophisticated
youth from the country he would make a better impression and more strongly commend himself
to the Doctor's sympathy than in any other way.

I think, however, that Hiram's call was rather of a failure. He had no ordinary man to deal
with. Dr. Chellis had not only a profound knowledge of human nature, but a quick insight into
its various peculiarities. He could classify individuals rapidly; and he read Hiram after fifteen
minutes' conversation.

The latter, not accustomed to men of the Doctor's calibre, found himself wanting in his usual
equanimity. His familiar rôle did not serve, he could see that, and for once his resources
failed him.

For the Doctor did not appear to be specially interested when Hiram, apropos of nothing, except
as a last card, undertook, in a meek, saint-like manner, to give him an account of his early
conviction of sin and subsequent triumphant conversion. Indeed, if the truth must be told,
the worthy divine gave evident symptoms--to speak plainly--of being bored before Hiram's story
was half finished! The latter was not slow to see this, and he found it difficult to rally.

At length he gave the Doctor an opportunity to speak, by bringing his personal narrative to
a close.

'You have no acquaintances in the city?'

'I think I may say none, except in business; and my object in selecting such a church as yours
is to keep up the same degree of piety which I humbly trust I maintained in my village home.'

[Pretty well, Hiram, pretty well--but you have an old head to deal with, and an honest heart:
be careful.]

'To do that,' replied the Doctor, gravely, 'you must not look back to what you were, or thought
you were. Be sure you are in danger when you feel complacent about yourself.'

These were awful words to Hiram, and from such a severe, grave, dignified old man.

'In danger!' That was something new. 'Of what?' Why, no thought of a possibility of danger
had crossed young Meeker's mind since the day he joined the church in Hampton.

He sat quite still, uncertain what reply to make.

He was interrupted by the tones of the Doctor's voice--tones which were modified from their
previous severity.

'I will take your letter,' he said, 'and at the next communion, which will take place in about
six weeks, you will be admitted to membership.'

'I should like to have a class in the Sunday school,' said Hiram, breathing more freely.

'If you will speak next Sunday to Mr. Harris, the superintendent,' replied the Doctor, 'he
will furnish you with one. There is a demand for teachers just at present, I heard him say.'

Dr. Chellis rose, as if Hiram had taken up enough of his time. Our hero could but do the same.
He bowed and left the room.

'A pretty sort of minister that,' exclaimed he between his teeth, as he quitted the house.
'Pious! no more pious than my boot. Never listened to a word I said. I know he didn't. Is it
possible I must sit under this man's preaching? I see now what cousin Bennett meant by things
being got up on an entirely different basis here from what they are in the country. I should
think they were. But there is Allwise, Tenant & Co., Daniel Story. I may trust myself with
such names [he did not say with such men]. Ah! h'm--h'm--lots of pretty girls, with plenty
of cash. I'll try it. Anyhow, it stands number one. No mistake about that!

CHAPTER III.

Hiram soon learned a lesson. He discovered there were people in New York just as quickwitted,
as keen, and as shrewd as he was himself. This did not alarm him. Not a bit. He was only the
more ready to appreciate the truth of Mr. Bennett's remark, that he had yet much to learn.

'I see it,' quoth Hiram. 'The city gets the best of everything, by the natural course of supply
and demand. Yes, it gets the best beef and mutton and fowls, and fruits and vegetables, and
on the same principle it commands the best men. Well, I like this all the better. It was dull
business in Burnsville, after all, with nobody to compete with. Give me New York!'

       *       *       *       *       *

In the store of Hendly, Layton & Gibb, Hiram saw and conversed with shipmasters who were familiar
with every port in the world. The reader will recollect, at school he had devoted himself to
mercantile geography. Thus he had located in his mind every principal seaport, and had learned
what was the nature of the trade with each. The old sea captains were amazed at the pertinence
of Hiram's questions, and with the information he possessed on topics connected with their
business. They could scarcely understand it. It gave them a great respect for the 'fellow,'
and Hiram speedily became a favorite with them all. He used to like to go on board their ships,
and chat with them there, whenever he found time. Do not suppose these were mere pleasure excursions.
Hiram Meeker was forming his opinion of each one of these captains. For in his mind's eye he
saw some of them in his employ; but which? that was the question. So by mingling with them,
he learned much of the mechanical part of commerce, and he discovered, besides their different
characters, who were competent and honest, and who were not altogether so.

Hiram also spent a good deal of his time conversing with Eastman, with whom he boarded. He
got the latter's ideas of business and about the men they daily encountered, and Eastman could
furnish a fund of valuable information, based on long experience.

Hiram all this time was indefatigable. He watched the course of trade. He endeavored to discover
the secret of the success of the great South street houses. He worked, he pondered, and yet
all the time served Hendly, Layton & Gibb with fidelity. Eastman became attached to him. Mrs.
Eastman said the man did not give her half the trouble she expected. So you see, in certain
quarters, Hiram was as popular as ever.

Meantime he had secured a seat in and joined Dr. Chellis's church. He duly presented himself
at the Sunday school and obtained a fine class. From that time he never missed a service on
Sunday, nor a lecture, or prayer meeting, or other weekly gathering. He even attended a funeral
occasionally, in his zeal to 'wait' on all the ordinances. He was, however, exceedingly modest
and unobtrusive. He did not seek to make acquaintances, but no one could help noticing his
punctilious regularity and decorum. I have remarked that Hiram determined to cut off what had
been a great source of pleasure--society; but he still paid the same attention to his personal
appearance as before. After a while questions began to be asked: 'Who is this new comer, so
constant, so devout, and so exemplary?'

'What a fine-looking fellow! I wonder who he is?' whispered Miss Tenant to Miss Stanley, one
morning, as our hero passed their seats (they both had classes) to take his place with his
Sunday school pupils.

'I don't know, I am sure,' replied her friend.

'I can't find any one who does. Do you know, I think he is real handsome?'

'So do I, if he would only lift his head up and look people in the face; he is as bashful as
a sheep.'

'My little brother is in his class, and he says they all like him so much. He takes such an
interest in his pupils.'

'Then I should think you could find out something about him.'

'No: his name is Meeker; that's all any one seems to know.'

'Funny name; I don't like it.'

'Nor I. Still, we won't condemn him for his name. Besides, I like his face?'

'Hush!'

Here the conversation of the two young people was interrupted by the rapping of the superintendent,
and the services of the school commenced.

If young ladies of the importance of Miss Tenant and Miss Stanley begin to talk about Hiram,
you may be certain it will spread through the school and into the church. He knew what was
going on--of course he did; but only took still greater pains with his personal appearance,
and became more shy and reserved and assiduously devout.

The elders of the church could not help noticing him.

The young ladies noticed him.

Heads of families observed his exemplary deportment.

Who could he be?

Dr. Chellis, meantime, did not lose sight of his new communicant. They frequently met, and
Hiram was always greeted, if not with cordiality, yet kindly. Strange to say, contrary to his
habit, the Doctor neglected or omitted to enter into conversation with Hiram on religious topics.
He felt a repugance to doing so which he could not explain. Everything seemed so praiseworthy
in Hiram's conduct, that one would suppose the worthy divine would like to engage him in conversation,
as the Rev. Mr. Chase used to do at Burnsville. But a certain aversion prevented it.

When applied to for information about Hiram, the Doctor could say nothing, for he knew nothing;
and so the mystery, for a mystery the young ladies determined to make of it, increased.

At last a rumor was circulated that Hiram had been disappointed in a love affair. A mischief-loving
girl detailed it to Miss Tenant, whose interest in the young Sunday school teacher gradually
grew stronger, and it soon became a well-authenticated piece of history.

       *       *       *       *       *

During this time a species of intimacy was growing up between Hiram Meeker and Hill. An odd
companionship, you will say; but they seemed to get along very well together. The latter, as
you may remember, was a wild, reckless fellow. He had his good traits, though. There was nothing
mean in his composition, but much that was impulsive and generous. He never laid up a penny,
and was always in debt. It was this unfortunate habit which had kept him so long at Joslin's.
He had got in advance of his salary, and he would not quit till it was made up. When he left
there, he succeeded in getting a place in a large wine and liquor house; for Hill's acquaintance
was extensive, and in those days of extraordinary 'drumming,' in which he was a great proficient,
his services were valuable. It was through Hill, as I have said, that Hiram got his place at
Hendly's, and after that he was in the habit of looking in nearly every day on him toward the
close of business hours.

I cannot precisely explain by what species of fascination this poor fellow was attracted to
Meeker. Doubtless it originated in the triumphant resistance which the latter opposed to Hill's
attempt on him at their first acquaintance, and his complete victory over and discomfiture
of Benjamin Joslin, for whom Hill entertained a supreme contempt. There was a mystery about
the sources of Hiram's power which completed the charm, and made Hill his willing subject,
and afterward slave.

But what did Hiram want of Hill? That would appear more difficult to answer. He certainly did
want something of him. For he encouraged his coming often to see him, and talked with him a
great deal. He even lent him occasionally small sums of money. I repeat, what a droll companionship!
Hill, a swearing, drinking, godless scapegrace. Meeker, a quiet, exemplary, religious, laborious
young man.

Perhaps it was the rule by which opposites are attracted to each other.

Perhaps it was something else.

On the whole, I am inclined to think it was something else, on Hiram's part at least. I believe
he acted, with respect to Hill, as he did with respect to everybody--from carefully considered
motives. We shall see, perhaps, by and by, how this was.

Eastman used to wonder that Hiram should tolerate Hill's society. To be sure, he himself had
a sort of family regard for him. But his presence always annoyed him. He even expressed his
surprise to Hiram, who replied by making use of the moral argument. He was sorry for the poor
fellow. He hoped to do him some good. Possibly he might be able to bring him under better influences.
Certainly Hill would not harm him, while, on the contrary, he (Hill) might be benefited.

Hiram did not tell the truth.

Really, if he had dared to stop and inquire of himself, he would be forced to acknowledge that
he did not want Hill to be different from what he was. Then he would not serve his purpose.
To be sure, sometimes, when Hill permitted an extra strong oath to escape his lips, Hiram would
fidget and look uneasy, and beg his visitor to break himself of such a wicked habit. But the
secret of Hiram's power did not lie in his moral influence certainly, for Hill's habit of swearing
did not improve, indeed it grew worse.

In this way passed our hero's first year in New York.

NULLIFICATION AND SECESSION.

We publish the principal part of the speech of Hon. R. J. Walker, against nullification and
secession, made at the great Union meeting at Natchez, Mississippi, on the first Monday of
January, 1833. We republish this speech from the Natchez Mississippi Journal of that date.
Upon that speech, Mr. Walker became the Union candidate for Senator of the United States from
Mississippi against Mr. Poindexter, a Calhoun nullifier and secessionist. After a three years'
contest of unexampled violence, Mr. Walker was elected on the 8th of January, 1836. So distinct
was the issue, that the Legislature of Mississippi declared nullification and secession to
be treason. The contest was conducted by Mr. Walker by speeches in every county, with the banner
of the Union waving over him, and to the music of our national airs.

We republish this speech now because it preceded Mr. Webster's great reply to Calhoun, and
because its arguments are applicable to the present contest. This speech drew out Gen. Jackson's
celebrated letter, heretofore published, in favor of Mr. Walker; and the speech received the
cordial approval of ex-President Madison. By reference to the Washington city Globe of the
12th August, 1836, it will be found that, in conversation with Mr. Ingersoll, 'Mr. Madison
spoke very freely of nullification, which he altogether condemned, remarking that Mr. Walker,
of the Senate, in a speech he had made on some occasion, was the first person who had given
to the public what he (Mr. Madison) considers the true view of Mr. Jefferson's language on
that subject.' Mr. Webster gave the Whig arguments against nullification and secession, Mr.
Walker the democratic; but they both arrived at the same conclusions:

Never, fellow citizens, did I rise to address you with such deep and abiding impressions of
the awful character of that crisis which involves the existence of the American Union. No mortal
eye can pierce the veil which covers the events of the next few months, but we do know that
the scales are now balancing in fearful equipoise, liberty and union in the one hand, anarchy
or despotism in the other. Which shall preponderate, is the startling question to which we
must all now answer. Already one bright, one kindred star is sinking from the banner of the
American Union, the very fabric of our government is rocking on its foundations, one of its
proudest pillars is now moving from beneath the glorious arch, and soon may we all stand amid
the broken columns and upon the scattered fragments of the Constitution of our once united
and happy country. Whilst then we may yet recede from the brink of that precipice on which
we now stand, whilst we are once more convened as citizens of the American Union, and have
still a common country, whilst we are yet fondly gazing, perhaps for the last time, upon that
banner which floated over the army of Washington, and living beneath that Constitution which
bears his sacred name, let us at least endeavor to transmit to posterity, unimpaired, that
Union, cemented by the blood of our forefathers. The honorable gentleman who has preceded me,
in opposition to the resolutions submitted for your consideration, tells us that he was nursed
in the principles of '76 and '98--that these are the principles of Carolina, and that they
ought to be maintained. Let me briefly answer, that the humble individual who now addresses
you is the son of a soldier of the Revolution, and that from the dawning of manhood, from his
first vote to his last, at all times, and upon all occasions, he has supported and will support
the principles of democracy, and the doctrines of '76 and '98. But it was under the banner
of the Union that the whigs of '76 and '98 achieved their glorious triumphs; and is that the
standard now unfurled by the advocates of nullification? It is true, we find nullification
declared in the Kentucky resolutions to be a rightful remedy--but nullification by whom? by
a single State? no--by those sovereignties the several States, in the mode prescribed by the
Constitution, by a declaratory amendment annulling the power under which the law was passed.
This would be a remedy in fact; for it would operate equally on all the States; but can the
same act of Congress be constitutional in one State, and unconstitutional in another? South
Carolina declares the Tariff unconstitutional--Kentucky declares it valid; is it nullified
or not? is it void or valid? The South Carolina theory gives to each State, of itself, the
unlimited power to pronounce ultimate judgment against the validity of any act of Congress.
If so, the Tariff must be valid in Kentucky, and void in South Carolina. Yet if the Carolina
ordinance, nullifying the Tariff, be valid in that State, it is valid in every other State,
and Carolina may introduce foreign imports, once landed in her own State, into every other
State, free of all duty; for, by the Constitution, 'no tax or duty shall be laid on articles
exported from any State.' What then becomes of the ultimate judgment of Kentucky? Nullified
by a single State; and that is the nullification of South Carolina, by which she can constitutionally,
and as a member of the Union, repeal any act of Congress she may deem invalid, and prescribe
her will for law throughout the limits of every other State. The Constitution of the Union
would then be this: Be it enacted, that the American Congress shall possess such powers only
as South Carolina believes they may lawfully exercise; and the whole American people be thus
subjected to the government of the ordinances of a single State. Is this democracy? The truth
is, every act of Congress is intrinsically void or valid, from its repugnance to or consonance
with the provisions of the American Constitution; nor can the judgment of a State render void
an act of Congress which is constitutional, or render valid an act of Congress which is unconstitutional.
Would the judgment of a single State have rendered the alien and sedition law constitutional,
or the last war unconstitutional, or would the Supreme Court of the Union have been compelled
to render opposite judgment in a case brought before them, declaring the citizen of Massachusetts
bound to oppose, and of Virginia to support either of these laws, as their respective States
had pronounced contradictory judgments upon them? Suppose Massachusetts had not only declared
the last war unconstitutional, but had passed an ordinance requiring her citizens to resist
the war, to prostrate and oppose the armies of the Republic, and to aid a tyrant's myrmidons
in driving the steel deeper into the bosoms of our bleeding countrymen; would the ordinance
be constitutional, or would not the acts it required to be performed be treason against the
Government of the Union?

It is said a State cannot commit treason; no, but its citizens may; nor would they be rightfully
acquitted because sustained by the judgment of a single State. If each State possesses an equal
right to pass ultimate judgment upon any act of Congress, and two States enact ordinances directly
contradictory to the same law, do they not, like the meeting of equal forces in mechanics,
nullify each other? or must the same law be enforced in one State and disregarded in the other?
Not without violating the Constitution; for if New York pronounces the Tariff valid, and South
Carolina declares it void, and suits are instituted in each State on bonds given for the payment
of duties on imports introduced into each, must the duties be collected in one State, but not
in the other? This would be to set at open defiance those clauses of the Constitution which
declare that all imposts 'shall be uniform throughout the United States,' and that 'no preference
shall exist in the collection of revenue in the ports of one State over those of another.'
Upon an appeal from the decisions by the Federal district courts of New York and Carolina,
in the suits on the bonds for these duties, how would the Supreme Court of the Union decide
the question? by enforcing the payment of the bonds given in Carolina? No; for that State had
exercised the right of ultimate judgment, and pronounced the law invalid; would the court decide
against the validity of the bond given in New York? No; for that State, in exercising its equal
right of pronouncing ultimate judgment, had declared that the law was valid. Or would they
enforce the payments of the duties in New York and not in South Carolina? This, we have seen,
would violate both the clauses of the Constitution last quoted. The only remaining judgment
would be, to disregard the edict of a single State, and to enforce the payment of the duties
in both States, or in neither, as the act of Congress might or might not be repugnant to the
provisions of the Constitution. If Kentucky and Virginia thought they possessed the power in
regard to the alien and sedition laws now claimed by Carolina in regard to the Tariff, where
is the ordinance nullifying those laws? Or would they be nullified by resolutions expressing
only the judgment and opinion of the Legislature in regard to the constitutionality of the
law, as if the Legislature, one department only of the Government of a single State, could
annul all the laws of the Union? Even South Carolina does not urge a doctrine so monstrous,
for she declares this can be done solely by the 'delegates' of the State in 'solemn convention.'
South Carolina finds, then, in the practice of Virginia and Kentucky, no warrant for the doctrine
of nullification. She finds neither ordinance, nor test oaths, nor standing armies, nor packed
juries, nor secession, or threats of secession, from the Union. They find Mr. Jefferson in
that great emergency protesting against 'a scission of the Union,' in any event; and the ordinance
of South Carolina would have received his unqualified abhorrence. But, if we are asked to surrender
the principles which alone can preserve the Union, on the assumed authority of Mr. Jefferson
and Mr. Madison, of Kentucky and of Virginia--why do not the advocates of nullification tell
us that Mr. Jefferson, in 1821, as appears by his printed memoirs, emphatically denied the
right of a State to veto an act of Congress; and Mr. Madison, a surviving founder of the Constitution,
and framer of the Virginia resolutions, unequivocally denounces the doctrine of nullification?
And are they not safer guides than Messrs. McDuffie, Calhoun, and Hamilton, the former of whom
wrote and published in 1821, and the latter deliberately sanctioned, in a laudatory preface,
a series of essays, denouncing this very doctrine of nullification as the 'climax of political
heresies'? Why do not those who would look to Kentucky and Virginia as the only safe expositors
of the Constitution inform us also, that the great and patriotic commonwealth of Kentucky is
indignantly repelling the charge that nullification ever was sustained by her authority? Why
do they not point to the unanimous resolution of the Virginia Legislature in 1810, declaring
in the very case of a nullification, by a law of Pennsylvania, of a power of the General Government,
that the Supreme Court of the Union is the tribunal, 'already provided by the Constitution
of the United States, to decide disputes between the State and Federal' authorities?' (See
'Sup. Rev. Code of Virginia,' page 150.) These resolutions, directly affirming the supremacy
of the judgment of the Supreme Court of the Union over the laws and judgment of a State, were
adopted by Virginia within a few months after the promulgation by that tribunal of its decree
enforcing the authority of the Union against the nullifying edict of a sovereign State. Virginia
did more: she not only affirmed the power of this tribunal, and sanctioned its decree, but
spoke of it in terms of the highest eulogy, and scouted indignantly the proposition of Pennsylvania
to vest the right of deciding questions of disputed power and sovereignty in some other tribunal
than the Supreme Court of the Union. The same proposition was treated with the open or silent
contempt of every State in the Union, South Carolina among the number; and Pennsylvania receded,
though she had passed a law commanding the Governor of the State to prevent by an armed force
the execution of the process emanating under the authority of the Constitution of the Union--though
she placed her act upon the same ground as Carolina, that the power exercised in that case
had never been granted by the Constitution to any department of the General Government. Thus
ended nullification in the keystone of the arch of the Union. That State, which has ever sustained
the Democracy of the South, in the election of Jefferson, of Madison, and Monroe, and the cheering
voice of whose public meetings first called out as a candidate for the presidency the patriot
Chief Magistrate who now upholds the banner of the Union, submitted to the law of the Union.
And is nullification constitutional in Carolina, but unconstitutional in Pennsylvania? Is the
one a sovereign and the other a subject State? Shall the one submit to the laws of the Union,
and not the other? Why, sir, if the people of Pennsylvania could sustain a distinction so odious,
the very shades of their ancestors would rise from the battlefields of the Revolution, from
Paoli and Germantown, and call their children bondmen of Carolina, vassals and recreant slaves!
I speak not now of the whiskey insurrection, when, at the order of Washington, the militia
of Virginia and of other States moved against the people of Western Pennsylvania, under the
command of the Governor of Virginia and Carolina, and the nation approved the deed; but I speak
of the period, during the presidency of Mr. Jefferson, when the State of Pennsylvania passed
a law nullifying the powers of the General Government, under her reserved right to construe
the Constitution at her pleasure, when she was compelled to yield to the laws of the Union,
and her armed force, assembled by her Governor under an edict of the State, was ineffectual.
Nullification was condemned by Jefferson and Madison, by Virginia and Carolina, and the people
of the Union; and must one State nullify and not another? No, sir; all or none of the States
must submit to the supremacy of the Government of the Union; and if Carolina can successfully
resist that Government, will any other State submit to a power which is thus insulted, disgraced,
defied, and overthrown by the edict of a single State, and which acts and exists only by its
permission? No, sir; one successful example of practical nullification by a State destroys
the Union; for it demonstrates that the Government of the Union has no power to execute its
laws, or preserve its existence--that it is not a government, or that its powers are written
in sand, to be swept away by the first angry surge of passion that beats over them. Such was
the prediction of the despots of Europe, too soon to be fulfilled if the fatal ordinance of
Carolina is sustained, and the flag of the Union struck down by the imperious mandate of a
single State. Let us, then, now teach those despots, who, pointing with exultation to our dissensions,
and anticipating our downfall, proclaim that man is incapable of self-government, that the
Union can and shall be preserved, that we know that 'Union and Liberty are inseparable,' that
the name and privileges of American citizens are entwined with the very ligaments of our hearts,
that they are our birthright, the glorious inheritance purchased by the blood of our forefathers,
and never to be surrendered by their sons; that we will all rally round the banner of our country
and sustain it, upon the ocean, on the land, in war and in peace, against foreign or domestic
enemies; or, if it must fall, it will be upon the graves of Americans preferring death in its
defence to life without it, when the iron chains of despotism would bind them as slaves to
that soil which they would tread only as freemen.

It is said that the Government of the Union is but a league formed by sovereign States. Did
the States form it as governments? if so, which or all of the departments of any State subscribed
or ratified the compact? or could the government of any State change the organic law, unless
by a power given them by the Constitution, or surrender the sovereign attributes of power,
and unite the people in a new government with other confederates? No; the government cannot
abolish or change its form or transfer its powers to another government: this highest act of
sovereignty can only be performed by the people of a State; and it was by the people of every
State, acting in convention as separate and distinct communities, that the Constitution was
ratified and rendered binding upon the people of all the States; and, in the language of Mr.
Jefferson, the Government thus formed was 'authorized to act immediately on the people and
by its own officers.' Was it then a league only? No, it was what its framers, the people, as
we have seen, and not the governments of all the States, called it, a 'Constitution'--a 'Government;'
and it is an overthrow of fundamental principles to say that a 'constitution,' a 'government,'
which is made 'the supreme law' in all the States, could be created by any power less than
the people of the several States, but as the people of the States, and not in their aggregate
capacity. Whatever may be the theories of the advocates of consolidation on the one hand, or
nullification on the other, this is certainly a true history of the manner in which the Government
of the Union was formed. A return then having taken place, in forming the Constitution, to
the people of all the States, as the primary fountain of power, they might have vested all
their sovereignty, or but a part of it, in one government; and they might have given, in either
event, the same power which exists in ordinary governments of enforcing its laws when sustained
as constitutional by all its departments, subject only to the natural rights of the people
to revolutionize the government in case of intolerable oppression. Certain important powers
and attributes of sovereignty the people of the States gave to this new government. They made
this government 'supreme' in the exercise of its powers in all the States. They gave this government
the sole power 'to declare war.' Did the State then remain an absolute sovereign in that respect,
and with absolute power to judge if the object of the war was constitutional, and annul the
declaration? This new government had the sole power to lay and collect 'duties on imports;'
did each State remain an absolute sovereignty in this respect, and with absolute powers to
judge if the object of the duties was constitutional, and annul the law? The General Government
was the only sovereign as regards these powers; but a single State, having none of these powers,
is made the absolute judge whether they can or cannot be exercised: then no powers have yet
been granted to the General Government by any State, if each possesses the right to interdict
the exercise of any of these powers. But, could this General Government exist without the authority
to give one uniform effect to the execution of its powers in all the States? Created with all
the organs of a government, legislative, judicial, and executive, may it enact, but not expound,
or enact and expound, but not execute? Must it stop at the boundary of each State, and ask
what power it possesses, and act upon the contradictory responses of each State? Must it possess
one set of powers in one State, and another and wholly opposite set of powers in another State?
May it lay a tariff in one State, and not in another, and yet this tariff required to be uniform
in every State? Is it one constitution, and susceptible of one only true construction, or twenty-four
constitutions, with twenty-four various and contradictory constructions, and all right, because
all pronounced by absolute sovereigns exercising the uncontrolled power of ultimate judgment?
Has it any powers, and what are they? Will Mississippi submit this question to Massachusetts
or Carolina, or is a government created whose powers cannot be ascertained? Must anarchy govern?
Can there be no decision, or is that of a single State, or of a small minority of the States,
to sweep away the legislation of a majority, or two thirds of the States? According to the
new theory, each State has the constitutional power in the first instance, and one fourth in
the last resort, to judge what powers each State may exercise, and the other States must submit.
Now, this is impossible, where the legislation of the two States is contradictory; and, if
possible, is not a mere negative, but a positive power. It is a government without limitation
of power, in a single State, aided by one fourth of the States--a government by which the minority
may control the majority in all cases whatsoever. Thus, Carolina frames any law or ordinance
she thinks she may lawfully do in the exercise of her reserved rights. She gives clearances
for vessels, for instance, to introduce all imports free of all duties. When once introduced
into Carolina, she has, or claims and exercises the right under the Constitution of introducing
these imports free of all duties into every other State in the Union. Two thirds of the States
have passed an act of Congress imposing certain duties on foreign imports: as separate States
they can pass no such laws, having surrendered that power in the Constitution of the Union.
Can Carolina compel them to receive all foreign imports free of all duties? Yet she says this
is one of her reserved rights, and she may forever constitutionally exercise it, in defiance
of an act of Congress passed by two thirds of the States. Such a government would be an oligarchy
of the most odious and detestable character. The right of the people of any State, or of any
portion of them, to meet intolerable oppression by revolution is certain; but, in Mr. Jefferson's
rough draught of the Kentucky resolutions (now attempted to be substituted for his deliberate
conclusions as contained in the resolutions themselves), does he advocate nullification by
a single State as a constitutional remedy, by a State remaining in the Union and submitting
only to such laws as it deemed valid. No; it was not as a constitutional, but as a 'NATURAL
right,' that Mr. Jefferson spoke of nullification by the people of a State. I say the people,
for Mr. Jefferson well knew that the 'natural right' of a State to nullify, as an artificial
body politic, would be a contradiction in terms. This 'natural right' is a personal, as contradistinguished
from a State right; it is inalienable--it is neither given nor reserved by constitutional compacts--it
exists in citizens of every State, the minority as well as the majority, and not in the government
of any one State. But the exercise of this right is revolution--it is a declaration of independence--it
is war, and appeals to the sword as its umpire. Let no State, then, claim to stand on the basis
of the Constitution of the Union, while stripping it of its vital powers, or setting up its
will for law. No, the ordinance of Carolina is not a peaceful, constitutional remedy: it is
a nullification of the Government itself, sweeping away its revenues, its courts, and its officers;
it is a repeal of the Union; it is despotic; it is revolutionary; it is belligerent; it is
a declaration of war or separate independence. It looks beyond a repeal of the Tariff; for,
whether the Tariff be repealed or not, it asks to engraft the doctrine of nullification as
a permanent feature of the Constitution, applicable in every case in which any State may deem
any act of Congress unconstitutional. Then each one of the States may take up the volumes containing
all the acts of Congress, and repeal them all by one sweeping edict of nullification; for there
is no limitation to the exercise of the power but her own will. It is said no State will abuse
the power; but if a majority of the States, by their representatives in Congress, may abuse
delegated powers, is there no danger that one of these same States, by their representatives
at home, may mistake the nature of their powers, and endanger the Union by a usurpation of
power? Or do the same people, and voting at the same period in any State, elect men to Congress
who will violate, and to the councils of the State, who will uniformly preserve the Constitution?
A State declared the last war unconstitutional: must the war be nullified, or, by the new theory,
suspended, till, by a slow and tedious process, its constitutionality be affirmed by three
fourths of the States? But, in the mean time, all hostile operations must cease, our army be
disbanded, our navy recalled, and no further supplies decreed of money, ammunition, or men.
And when one State thus nullifies any act of Congress, she is not required to be sustained
by the vote of any other State: the one fourth are only required to refuse to act--to remain
neutral--if they consider the act of Congress inexpedient, although they believe it constitutional.
Suppose the New-England States, after the war was pronounced unconstitutional by a single State,
had refused to call a convention to amend the Constitution, or, if called, to grant the disputed
power; then the war must have been abandoned, the minority must govern, and our country be
disgraced, our seamen permitted to be pressed from the very decks of our vessels into foreign
service, and the maritime despotism of Britain established without even a struggle in defence
of our liberties. Shall opposition to the Tariff betray us into the support of doctrines so
utterly subversive of the Constitution, and inconsistent with the existence of any government
of the Union?

Once this power was threatened to be assumed by Massachusetts, now by South Carolina, and how
and by what State it will next be exercised, or what vital power it may next strike from the
Constitution, it is impossible to predict; but, if permitted in one State, it will be exercised
by all, till not a vestige remains of the Constitution of the Union. Suppose the Tariff repealed
by Congress, nullification may annul the repealing law. Louisiana may, in the exercise of her
right of ultimate judgment, declare that the repealing law is unconstitutional, upon the pretext
that it destroys rights vested by the first law and violates the plighted faith of the Government,
insist on the collection of duties under the first law, pass her ordinance, array her State
officers against those of the Union, and thus destroy the commerce of Mississippi, and of all
the Western States, or compel the collection of the present duties. Or she may say that, if
Congress possesses no power to lay duties which will operate an incidental protection, Louisiana
possesses the reserved right of imposing duties for that purpose; that each State possessed
it before it became a member of the Union; that duties for revenue only can be collected by
the General Government, and that the residuary power to lay duties for protection is one of
the powers of a sovereign State; that she will exercise it, and impose protecting duties on
imports, and thus we shall have various and conflicting State tariffs from Maine to Louisiana
(the very object which the Constitution was designed to prevent); but if Louisiana alone adopt
the measure, the commerce of the West is prostrate at her feet.

It is in the name of liberty and to protect minorities, that nullification professes to act;
while in its first ordinance it sweeps away the dearest rights of a large minority of the people
of Carolina, and binds the freedom of conscience in adamantine chains. It deprives American
citizens of that last and hitherto sacred refuge from oppression, a trial by an impartial jury,
and requires the very judges upon the bench and jurors within the box to be sworn to condemn
the unhappy man whose only crime was this: that he claimed the Government of the Union as his
birthright, and acknowledged the duty of obedience to its laws. Such are the opening scenes
of nullification; and, if not arrested, where or how will the drama close? In all the horrors
of civil war. Turn your eyes upon the scenes of the French Revolution, and behold them about
to be reacted within the limits of a sister State. Rising, then, above all minor considerations,
and lifting our souls to the contemplation of that lofty eminence on which Heaven itself has
vouchsafed to place the American people, as the only guardians of the hopes and liberties of
mankind, let us act as becomes the depositaries of that sacred fire which burns on the altars
of the American Union, and resolve that this Union shall be preserved, all whole and inviolate,
as we received it from the hands of our forefathers.

But, if nullification is not a constitutional remedy, we are told that secession is; and a
few, who deny the one, admit the other; and our venerable chief magistrate (Jackson) has been
proclaimed as a Federalist, because he denies the right of secession; and many of his supporters,
although some may not concur in every argument by which he arrives at his conclusions, but
concur in the conclusions themselves, are visited with a similar denunciation. Sir, the President
is one of the fathers and founders of the Democratic party--one of its earliest and most steadfast
supporters, in defeat and triumph, in war and in peace, in sunshine and in storm. In the Senate
of the United States he voted against the alien law, and was a zealous advocate of the principles
which resulted in the election of Mr. Jefferson, and the great political revolution of 1800;
and if any one man has done more to support all the just rights of the States than General
Jackson, that man is not known to me. It is now nearly ten years since I had the honor to propose
the name of this illustrious patriot to the first meeting of a portion of the Democracy of
Pennsylvania as a candidate for the presidency, and I will not hear him denounced as a Federalist
without, at least, an effort in his defence. Who made the right of secession as a constitutional
right of every State an article in the creed of the Democratic party, and by what authority?
By what reasoning is nullification denounced, and secession supported, as a constitutional
remedy? If there be any real difference, the former is check, and the latter a check-mate,
to the movements of the Government of the Union. The same reasoning demonstrates the fallacy
of nullification or secession, with equal clearness and certainty. A State cannot nullify a
law of the Union, because the Constitution and laws of the State are made subordinate to the
Constitution and laws of the Union, by a compact to which the people of each State were one
party, and bound themselves to the people of all the other States, as the other party. One
State cannot change the compact, or any of its terms or provisions, yet it may rescind the
compact at pleasure! It would be abuse of language to call such an instrument a compact, because
it would be obligatory upon none. Without the constitutional right to nullify a law of Congress
by the ultimate judgment of the State against it, how could the constitutional power of secession
arise? It is said, from a violation of the Constitution of the Union by the General Government;
but if a State has not, as the opponents of nullification admit, any right to pass ultimate
judgment on the constitutionality of an act of Congress, how can it make the supposed violation
of the Constitution by the General Government the basis of the act of secession? The preamble
of the ordinance on which the State would rest its act of secession, by asserting the unconstitutionality
of an act of Congress, would be swept away by the non-existence of a power in a single State
to pronounce ultimate judgment upon the acts of the Government of the Union; and the preamble
and ordinance of secession would fall together. Thus, when Carolina, in her ordinance, first
declares certain acts of Congress unconstitutional, and proceeds, with the same ordinance,
to nullification first, and then to secession, we deny her constitutional right to nullify
or secede for the same reason; because the right declared by her ordinance to render an act
of Congress unconstitutional by the judgment of a single State is a usurpation of power. Governor
Hayne, of Carolina, in his late proclamation, inquires if that State was linked to the Union
'in the iron bonds of a perpetual Union.' These bonds were not of iron, or Carolina would have
never worn them, but they are the enduring chain of peace and Union. One link could not be
severed from this chain, united in all its parts, without an entire dissolution of all the
bonds of union; and one State cannot dissolve the union among all the States. Yet Carolina
admits this to be the inevitable consequence of the separation of that State; for, in the address
of her convention, she declares that 'the separation of South Carolina would inevitably produce
a general dissolution of the Union.' Has the Government of the Union no power to preserve itself
from destruction, or must we submit to a 'general dissolution of the Union' whenever any one
State thinks proper to issue the despotic mandate? It was the declared object of our ancestors,
the hope of their children, that they had formed 'a PERPETUAL Union.' The original compact
of Carolina with her sister States, by which the confederacy was erected, is called 'Articles
of Confederation and perpetual Union.' In the thirteenth article of this confederacy, it is
expressly declared that 'the Union shall be perpetual;' and in the ratification of this compact,
South Carolina united with her sister States in declaring: 'And we do further solemnly plight
and engage the faith of our respective constituents' that 'the Union shall be perpetual;' and
may she now withdraw this pledge without a violation of the compact? By the old confederacy,
then, the Union was perpetual; and the declared object of the Constitution was to form 'a more
perfect Union' than that existing under the former confederacy. Now, would this Union be more
perfect under the new than the old confederacy, if by the latter the Union was perpetual, but,
under the former, limited in its duration at the will of a single State?

The advocates of secession claim the constitutional power for each State to annul, not only
any law which the State may deem unconstitutional, but to abolish the Constitution itself as
the law of the State. Now, by this Constitution, Carolina granted certain powers to the General
Government: may she constitutionally alter or revoke the grant, in a manner repugnant to the
provisions of that Constitution? That instrument points out the mode in which it may be changed
or abrogated, and by which the several States may assume all or any of the powers granted to
the General Government, namely, by the conjoint action of three fourths of the States. What,
then, are the powers reserved to the State? What is the meaning of the clause 'or to the people,'
as contradistinguished from 'the States'? Does it mean that any of this mass of undefined powers,
but embracing all not granted to the General Government, was reserved to the people of the
United States in the aggregate? Then there would exist, and does now exist, a consolidated
despotism. No, it was to the people of each State the reservation was made. Then it follows,
as a necessary consequence, that none of the powers granted to the General Government were
reserved either to the States or the people of any State. That is, so far as the people of
any one State had granted, by their own separate constitution, to the State government any
powers not delegated to the General Government, the government of the State might exercise
these powers, and so far as any of these undelegated powers were not granted to the State government,
by the people of the State, they were reserved to the people of each State. Now, one of the
powers reserved to the people of each State is to change their form of State government, and
resume the powers granted by it. But we have seen that neither the government or people of
a State could resume 'the powers delegated to the United States,' because it was not one of
the rights reserved to either. What! I am asked, cannot the people of a State abolish their
form of government? Yes, in two modes: one in accordance with the Constitution, and the other
by a revolution. Could the people of Carolina or Mississippi change or abolish their State
constitution, except in the mode prescribed by that instrument, unless by a revolution? And
the same power, the people of Carolina, that formed for them their State constitution, ratified
and rendered obligatory upon them the Constitution of the Union; and can the one and not the
other be abolished, except by a revolution, in any other mode than that prescribed by the Constitution?
Here she would be met by the former act of the people of Carolina, declaring that they had
abandoned the power to form for themselves a constitution by which the Constitution of the
Union would cease within their limits to be 'the supreme law of the land.' Nor did the framers
of the Constitution mean to say only that the then existing Constitutions of the States ratifying
the compact should be subordinate to the Constitution of the Union; for then, also, only the
existing laws of any State were required to be subordinate to the Constitution of the Union;
but both are placed on the same basis. The power of a State to nullify by its laws, or secede
by forming a new constitution, are both denied in the same clause and sentence of the American
Constitution. The language is clear, that the Constitution of the Union shall be 'the supreme
law of the land,' and 'binding in every State,' 'anything in the Constitution or laws of any
State to the contrary notwithstanding.' The terms are 'shall be;' it is the language of command,
it is prospective, it was binding when subscribed, now, and forever. Or, was Carolina never
bound by this compact, and might she, the very day after it was ratified by her people, disregard
it altogether, secede, and establish a constitution directly repugnant to the Constitution
of the Union? If so, written constitutions are worse than useless; they are not obligatory,
there is no penalty for their violation; obedience to them cannot be enforced; there is no
government but that of opinion, fluctuating and uncertain, undefined and undefinable, which
is paramount to the fundamental law. This is what the despots of Europe call our government,
and why they predict its downfall--a prediction now in the course of fulfilment, if these anarchical
principles can be recognized as the doctrines of the Constitution.

There is no difference between the doctrines or acts of Jefferson and Jackson on this subject.
Both admit nullification or secession as a revolutionary measure; and the new doctrine of suspending
a law by a nullifying edict finds not the remotest support from Mr. Jefferson. Why then ask
any other remedy than revolution for a case where revolution would be unavoidable? And SECESSION
IS REVOLUTION. But did Mr. Jefferson mean to say that whenever any State should place its laws
or Constitution, by nullification or secession, in opposition to the laws of the General Government,
that the power of the General Government must not be exerted? The very reverse. The act of
Congress of the 3d of March, 1807, signed and approved by Mr. Jefferson as President, expressly
authorizes the President of the United States to 'employ such part of the land and naval force
of the United States as may be necessary' to execute 'the laws of the United States.' Does
this mean, as General Hayne tells us in his proclamation, to execute the laws against insurgents
not sustained by any law of the State? No; this act was passed at the very time when Pennsylvania
was proceeding, by virtue of a law of the State, to execute, by an armed force, the mandate
of the State in opposition to the mandate of the Federal authorities; and the officer of Pennsylvania,
acting under the mandate of the Governor and a positive law of the State, was condemned for
executing a law of the State opposed to the mandate of the General Government, and only escaped
punishment by the pardon of President Madison: and thus falls the very basis of the doctrine
of nullification. Here is a commentary by Messrs. Jefferson and Madison, demonstrating their
entire concurrence with our present Chief Magistrate. And, if any further evidence of Mr. Jefferson's
views were wanting, it is to be found in his letters, already referred to, protesting against
a separation of the Union, and denying the right of a State to 'veto' an act of Congress; and
in many other letters to be found in his memoirs, insisting upon the power even of the old
confederacy to exercise 'COERCION over its delinquent members,' the States. Why, then, is General
Jackson denounced as a tyrant, for doing that which his oath and the Constitution compel him
to do? Suppose any State, by its ordinance, should arrest the passage of the mail through their
limits, upon the pretext that the law was unconstitutional; the acts of Congress place at the
disposal of the President the militia of any one or all of the States, or 'the land or naval
force of the United States', to execute the law of the Union in every State, by whomsoever
resisted or opposed. The Constitution and his oath command him to execute the laws; he must
execute them, and the mail must pass on, though the edict of a single State should attempt
to arrest it by nullification or secession. Such, too, was the opinion of Mr. Jefferson; and
that illustrious patriot would have laid his head on the block, and blessed the hand that severed
it from his body, rather than sever the Union by the promulgation of the doctrines now ascribed
to him. What are the consequences of this right of a State to secede from the Union?--this
right of revolution, without the power of the General Government to preserve the Union? Any
one State may arrest, to-morrow, the mail of the Union, and its passage from State to State,
and refuse it a passage forever. Pennsylvania, a central State, may separate the North from
the South, prevent all intercommunication, render our country a republic divided and indefensible.
Louisiana, purchased by taxes imposed upon the people of all the States, may secede and establish
a separate and independent government, lay protective or prohibitory imposts on the imports
and exports of this State and of the West, carried through her ports and the outlets of the
Mississippi. She might say, I will protect my own cotton planters, by prohibitory duties on
the cotton of Mississippi or the West, or the imports designed to be exchanged for it, shipped
through my ports or through the outlet of the Mississippi: it is my interest to do so; for
thus I can deprive the cotton planters of Mississippi and the West of a market; thus compel
them to abandon the culture of that staple, and sell my own cotton at a higher price. Louisiana
asserts no such doctrines; but, if she did, could Mississippi, could the West admit them? and,
in the last resort, would not the Government force a passage for our imports and exports by
the sword? Yes; for as well might you take the heart from the human body and bid it live, as
sever Louisiana from the States that border on the Mississippi, and bid these States to prosper.
No; Louisiana holds the outlet of that stream through which the life blood of their commerce
and industry must forever flow; and we never could admit her right to secede from the Union,
and dictate the terms on which we should use the outlet of that stream, whose banks were destined
by heaven itself as the residence of a united people. Not only Louisiana, but State by State
that borders on the Atlantic or the Gulf, might secede, seclude the West from the ocean, and
render them the tributaries of the seaboard States, by laying prohibitory duties on their imports
and exports. Could we submit to this? Not while the West contained a gun to use, or a man to
shoulder it.

And may Carolina secede and establish an independent government? Did she establish her own
independence? No, it was achieved by the arms and purchased by the blood of Americans, with
the banner of the Union floating over them. I know the valor of Carolina, that, man to man,
she is invincible; but, unaided and alone, she would have fallen in the Revolution. She would
have fallen gloriously, her soil would have drunk the blood of her children; but still she
must have fallen in the unequal contest. When Carolina was made the battlefield of the Revolution,
from the very rock of Plymouth and the heights of Bunker Hill, from Pennsylvania, from Virginia,
American citizens flew to her rescue. Side by side with Carolina's sons they marched beneath
the banner of the Union; they fought, they conquered; Carolina was redeemed from bondage, but
upon her many and well-fought fields was mingled the blood and repose the ashes of our common
ancestors, the pledges of our Union in victory and in death.

Shades of these departed patriots! arise, and say to the sons of Carolina, it was the Union
that made you free. Without it, you would yet be subjects, colonial vassals, and slaves; without
it, the chains are now forging that will bind you to the thrones of despots. And could we stand
with folded arms, and behold the Union dissolved? Could we see the seventeen thousand freemen
of Carolina, who cling with the grasp of death to the banner of the Union, deprived of their
privileges as American citizens, proscribed, disfranchised, expelled from all offices, civil
and military, driven by glittering bayonets from the bench and the jury box, tried and convicted
by judges and jurors sworn to condemn, attainted as traitors, torn from the last embraces of
wives and children, consigned to the scaffold or the block, or immured within the walls of
a dungeon, where the light of heaven or liberty should never visit them, with no consolation
but their patriotism, and no companions but their chains? And, gracious Heaven, for what? Oh!
Liberty, when was thy sacred temple profaned by deeds like this? Thy martyrs suffered only
for clinging to the banner of the American Union. And could we see them torn from around that
sacred banner, and move not to their rescue? No; the glow that beams on every countenance,
the patriot's answer that speaks from every throbbing breast, proclaims that, as in '76 our
fathers marched to free their sires from tyrants' power, so would their children go, to save
from death or bondage Carolina's friends of union--with them, beneath the standard of our common
country, to die or conquer.

Citizens of Mississippi, to you the address of the nullifying convention of Carolina makes
a special appeal. It asks, if Carolina secedes from the Union, 'Can it be believed that Georgia,
Mississippi, Tennessee, and even Kentucky would continue to pay a tribute of fifty per cent.
upon their consumption to the Northern States for the privilege of being united to them, when
they could receive all their supplies through the ports of South Carolina, without paying a
single cent for tribute?' To this question, Georgia has already answered, by expressing her
'abhorrence' of the doctrine of nullification, her firm resolve to adhere to the Union. Tennessee
has made the same response. Kentucky, in a voice of thunder, answers, No, we will preserve
the Union as it is. And will Mississippi receive the bribe thus offered to dissolve the Union?
What is it? The privilege of exchanging our exports for imports free of duty, in the ports
of Carolina; and then would Carolina pay the taxes to raise and maintain an army, or a navy,
and protect our commerce? But if she could, nature pronounces the project impracticable. Our
commerce must flow through the outlet of the Mississippi; and how would our exports reach the
ports of Carolina--how would our imports thence be received? Through the outlet of the Mississippi?
No, that outlet and its ports would then be in the hands of Louisiana--in that event, to us
a hostile foreign government, from which we had severed ourselves. For let it not be forgotten
that Louisiana is not even invited to join this new confederacy; and if she were, is announcing
her unalterable determination to adhere to the Union as it is. Then, through the outlet of
the Mississippi our commerce could not be carried on with the ports of Carolina; for Louisiana,
as we have seen before, would meet and stop our exports and imports with prohibitory duties.
Would we move up the Mississippi or Ohio to reach the ports of Carolina, or any other market?
There we would find the confederates from whom we had severed; we would find a foreign government,
and prohibitory duties would exclude our access to Carolina's ports in that direction. How
would we reach them? The only other route, if Georgia and Alabama would grant the boon for
Carolina's benefit, would be to pass through those States by land to Charleston, with our cotton,
and return by land with the imports received in exchange. A trip of one thousand miles by wagon
road with cotton! The entire value of the crop would not pay for its transportation. Is this
the proposition of Carolina? What is the only commerce we could carry on with her? By abandoning
the culture of cotton upon our fertile lands, for the benefit of Carolina, and our planters
all becoming drovers of horses, mules, and cattle, to exchange for her imports, and return
with them, packed on the number unsold of our mules and horses. And are these the benefits
for which we are asked to dissolve the Union, and place the channel of the Mississippi above
and below, and its outlet, in the hands of a foreign government, denying a passage ascending
or descending, to our imports or exports, and excluding us from the ocean altogether? If Carolina's
scheme were practicable, Mississippi would not sell the Union for dollars and cents; but though
the scheme might be beneficial to Carolina, by stopping the culture of cotton on our fertile
soil, to the people of this State it is ruin immediate and inevitable. The remedy Carolina
proposes to us for the Tariff, is worse than the disease. The disease is not mortal--it is
now in a course of cure; but Carolina's remedy is death--it is suicide; for the dissolution
of the Union is political suicide.

A Southern convention is proposed, of the States of North and South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia,
Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi. If the object be a confederacy of these States, without
Louisiana and the Western, Middle, and Northern States, if patriotism, or love for the Union
were insufficient to restrain us from attempting this fatal measure, we have seen that it would
blast forever the fortunes of the planters of Mississippi. But what States will unite in this
convention? Georgia has disavowed the act of the self-constituted, self-elected minority convention
that acted in her name. The history of Virginia speaks in the voice of indignant rebuke to
all those States that assemble sectional conventions. North Carolina, unassuming, but steadfast
in support of the Union, will enter into no such convention. Alabama, if her public meetings
and journals and her chief magistrate speak the voice of the State, will send no delegates.
Tennessee, brave and patriotic, devoted to the Union, and sustaining its banner in war and
in peace, meets the proposition with a decided refusal. I imagine, then, our delegates would
return without finding this Southern convention. I am opposed to all sectional conventions.
We have had one such convention, and, whatever the secret motives of its members may have been,
the very fact that it was a sectional convention, that it was believed to be convened to calculate
the value of the Union, that it was supposed to have in view an Eastern confederacy, has sealed
the doom of its members and projectors. And when the calm shall follow the storm, a similar
fate awaits all who will go into this Southern convention. I trust there never will be another
partial convention, Northern, Southern, Eastern, or Western; for, whether assembled at Hartford
or Columbia, they are equally dangerous to the Union of the States. They create and inflame
geographical parties. Could the North, assembled in convention, have that full knowledge of
the situation and wants of the people of the South, as to legislate for them, and propose ultimatums
to which the South must submit, or leave the Union? Could the South possess that full knowledge
of the situation and wants and interests of the people of all the other States, as to enable
them to dictate the terms on which the Union should be governed or dissolved? No; it is only
in a meeting of all the States, in Congress or convention, that that knowledge of the wants
and interests of all, and that fusion of sentiment and opinion, and spirit of concession, can
exist, in which the Constitution was framed, and all its powers should be exercised.

If we hold Southern conventions, then will there be Northern, Eastern, and Western conventions,
and they will overthrow the Union. Partial confederacies will first be formed, and then, as
Mr. Jefferson most truly tells us, would speedily follow the formation of a separate and independent
government by each State. What is it we are asked to abandon, and for what? That Union which
ushered in the morn of American Liberty, and gave birth to the Declaration of Independence;
which carried our armies victoriously through the storms of the Revolution and the last war,
and now waves triumphantly in every sea, the kindred emblem of our country's glory. It gave
us Washington--it gave us liberty, and bears our name aloft among the nations of the earth.
It is our only rampart in war--our only safeguard in peace, and under its auspices we declared,
achieved, maintained, and can alone preserve our liberties. It is the only basis of our solid
and substantial interests, and the last star of hope to the oppressed of every clime. Shall
we calculate its value? No! for we will not estimate the value of liberty--and 'liberty and
union are inseparable.' Dissolve this Union, and let each State become, as Mr. Jefferson truly
tells us it would, a separate government, could we preserve our liberties? Where would be the
army and navy and seamen of the State of Mississippi? how to be procured, and how to be maintained
and paid? Where would be her ambassadors and treaties, her commerce--and through what ports
and by whose permission would she ship her exports or introduce her imports? Who would respect
her flag, who recognize her as a nation--and how would she punish aggressions upon her rights,
on the ocean or the land? No, fellow citizens; the President truly tells us that 'separate
independence' is a 'dream'--a dream from which we would wake in bondage or in death. But, if
disgraced abroad, what would be our situation at home, as separate bordering and hostile States--and
how long could we remain in peace and concord? The voice of history tells us--the bloodstained
fields of our sister republics of America proclaim, that disunion would be the signal for WAR--a
war of conquest, in which the weak would fall before the power of the strong; and upon the
ruins of this now happy Union might arise the darkest despotism that ever crushed the liberties
of mankind, for it would be established and could only be maintained by the bayonet. Perhaps,
while yet the civil war should rage with doubtful issue, while exhausted and bleeding at every
pore, that sanguinary alliance of despots, combined to crush the liberties of man, would send
its armies to our shores. Under what standard would we rally to preserve our liberty? There
would be no Union--without it there would be no strength; and those who, united, could defy
the world in arms, divided would be weak and powerless. Such are the ultimate results of disunion.
Let us take the first step, and all may be lost forever. No; the liberties of all the States
are embarked together, and if one State withdraw her single plank, the national vessel must
go down to rise no more, and shipwreck the hopes of mankind. Let us then adjure the people
of Carolina, by the ties of our common country and common kindred--by the ruin and disgrace
which civil war will bring upon the victors and vanquished--by the untried horrors of those
scenes to which disunion must conduct, to repeal her ordinance, and not to force upon us that
dread alternative, in which we must support the flag of our country, or surrender our Union
and liberty without a struggle: that we cannot, we will not, we dare not, surrender them; and,
if forced to draw the sword to defend our liberties, the motto will gleam on every blade: 'The
Union shall be preserved.' For were it abandoned, life would not be a blessing, but a curse;
and happiest would those be whose eyes were closed in death ere they beheld the horrors of
those scenes to which with viewless and rapid strides we seem to hasten. Well, fellow citizens,
may our hearts be wrung with sorrow on this occasion, in looking back to what we were, and
forward to what we may soon be. Well may the tears unbidden start, for they are the tears that
patriots shed over the departing greatness of our once united, but now distracted and unhappy
country.

THE SIOUX WAR.

Compared with the great storm of rebellion which has darkened and overspread our whole national
sky, the Indian war on our northwestern frontier has been a little cloud "no bigger than a
man's hand;" and yet, compared with similar events in our history, it has scarcely a parallel.
From the days of King Philip to the time of Black Hawk, there has hardly been an outbreak so
treacherous, so sudden, so bitter, and so bloody, as that which filled the State of Minnesota
with sorrow and lamentation, during the past summer and autumn, and the closing scenes of which
are even now transpiring. We were beginning to regard the poetry of the palisades as a thing
of the past, when, suddenly, our ears were startled by the echo of the warwhoop, and the crack
of the rifle, and our hearts appalled by the gleam of the tomahawk and the scalping knife,
as they descended in indiscriminate and remorseless slaughter, on defenceless women and children
on our border.

In the year 1851, the Sisseton, Wahpeton, M'dewakanton and Wahpekuta bands of Dacotah or Sioux
Indians by treaty ceded to the United States, in consideration of certain annuities to be paid
them, all their lands within the present limits of the States of Iowa and Minnesota, excepting
a reservation set apart for their habitation and use, embracing a narrow strip along the southern
side of the Minnesota River, of about ten miles in width and one hundred and fifty in length.
To this reservation these four bands removed their people, numbering some seven thousand souls,
of whom, perhaps, twelve hundred were warriors. During the eleven years which have elapsed
since this treaty was made, they have lived there, the State of Minnesota being meanwhile peopled
by the whites with unparalleled rapidity, and the Indians seeing flourishing and populous settlements
springing up all about them. With but a single interruption, peace and amity has existed between
the two races; missions, schools, and to some extent, agriculture, have been established among
them; and a large number of halfbreeds, springing from marriages between white traders and
Sioux women, have formed, apparently, a link of consanguinity and interest, which, aided by
the influence and laws of civilization, would hereafter prevent any trouble or bloodshed on
the part of the savages.

One single and very grave interruption to these peaceful relations has, however, occurred.
In March, 1857, Inkpadutah, a Wahpekuta Dacotah, with a small band of followers, committed
a terrible massacre near Spirit Lake, in the northwestern corner of Iowa, slaying fifty persons,
and carrying away four women into captivity, two of whom were, after some months, ransomed
and restored to their friends, the other two having been previously murdered by their captors.
But Inkpadutah and his band were outlaws, driven away by their own people for creating internal
dissensions; and although the perpetrators were never properly pursued and punished, it was
not thought that the outrage had been countenanced by the rest of the nation, or that any danger
existed of similar acts on their part.

The cause of the recent outbreak cannot, perhaps, be absolutely determined; the manner of its
beginning is more easily traced. It must be understood that, for the purpose of receiving their
annuities, the Indians, at a certain period every summer, come down from their hunting grounds
to the two Agencies, one at Redwood, near Fort Ridgely, and the other at Yellow Medicine. It
is the custom to keep a certain quantity of provisions at these Agencies to feed them during
these visits, and also to sometimes send them supplies during times of great want and scarcity
of game in winter. Unfortunately, they came last year much earlier than common, and before
they had received their usual notification from the Agent, that the annuities were awaiting
them. In addition, as if all the accidents were destined to be adverse, the session of Congress
was very long, the Appropriation Bill, which included the Indian appropriations, did not pass
until the day before the adjournment, and the immense pressure of business on the Departments,
and the great difficulty of obtaining coin, all occasioned long and unusual delays. The coin,
$71,000 in silver (Indians understand silver coin, and will scarcely take any other), was finally
shipped by express from the sub-treasury in New York city, on the 12th of August, reached St.
Paul on the 16th, and was immediately despatched by private conveyance to Yellow Medicine,
via Fort Ridgely, at which latter place it arrived on the 18th.

The Indians came down to the Agency at Yellow Medicine about the middle of July, to the number
of four thousand, men, women, and children. Here they remained in waiting some three weeks.
Provisions, in small quantities, were given to them, but for so large a number of mouths the
rations were scanty. This supply, with the few wild ducks and pigeons which they could shoot
from time to time, the little flour they were able to buy on credit from the trading houses,
and the half-grown potatoes they stole from the fields, enabled them to eke out a scanty subsistence.

As might be readily imagined, this state of things bred great discontent. On the morning of
the 4th of August, a large number of Indians came over from their encampment, and some on horseback,
and some on foot, with guns and hatchets, rushed to the door of the warehouse, cut it down,
and commenced carrying out bags of flour. The few soldiers who were stationed at the Agency,
were, as well as the Agent and employés, taken completely off their guard by this movement;
but in a short time they recovered themselves; got a field piece loaded and turned upon the
crowd, and sent a squad of soldiers to the warehouse. At these preparations, the Indians desisted;
but the military force was too small to make more than a formal demonstration. The pile of
flour taken out of the warehouse had not been carried away, and while the soldiers prevented
this being done, the Indians placed a guard to hinder its being recovered by the whites. Thus
they stood during the remainder of the day, in an attitude of mutual defiance, yet neither
party was willing to inaugurate hostilities. The next morning, when the Indians again as usual
flocked down to the Agency, a couple of arrests were promptly made by the guard. This had the
effect of driving them all back to their camps. Almost immediately afterward they struck their
tents, and removed to a distance of from two to four miles. This was looked upon at the Agency
as a war movement, and all possible defensive preparations were at once made. Some of the women
were sent away, guns and pistols were loaded, field pieces and troops were placed in position,
and pickets were thrown out. Everything looked like war. Still there had been no actual bloodshed.
Through the mediation of Rev. Mr. Riggs, who had long resided among them as a missionary, peaceful
counsels finally prevailed with the Indians. Thirty-six of the chiefs met the Agent in council,
smoked the pipe of peace, acknowledged their offence, and expressed their sorrow and shame
at its occurrence. Three days afterward another council was held, in which they agreed to receive
certain rations, and promised to induce their people to move away until the annuity money should
arrive. The Agent, on his part, forgave their trespass, and promised to send for them as soon
as he should be prepared to make their payment. So confident was he that the arrangement was
amicable and satisfactory, that he went soon afterward to St. Paul on business, leaving his
family at the Agency.

Things remained in this condition until Sunday, the 17th of August, 1862. On that day, four
young Indians, belonging to Little Six's band, went to the house of Mr. Jones, at Acton, Meeker
county, Minnesota. As they evinced an unfriendly disposition, Mr. Jones locked his house, and
with his wife, went to the house of Mr. Howard Baker, a near neighbor, where he was followed
by the Indians. They proposed to go out and shoot at a mark, but after leaving the house, suddenly
turned and fired upon the party, mortally wounding Mr. and Mrs. Jones, Mr. Baker, and a Mr.
Webster. Mrs. Baker, with a young child, concealed herself in the cellar and escaped. The Indians
then returned to Jones' house, which they broke into, killing a young woman who had been left
there. This was the first bloodshed of the war.

Up to this time there seems to have been no deliberate preparation, no concerted arrangement
for the outbreak against the whites. There was excitement and discontent among the Indians
on account of hunger, the delay of their payment, and the real or supposed wrongs and frauds
committed by white traders and officials; but no organized hostile movement had been agreed
on. They knew that a great war was in progress between the whites; that armies were being raised,
and the country was being drained of men. All this was known and discussed among them. There
are also grave suspicions, and not without considerable show of evidence, that rebel emissaries,
Indians or half breeds from the Missouri border, had been among them fomenting the discord
and urging war.

When these four young men returned on the 18th to their band, which was then with others at
the Sioux Agency at Redwood, the recital of their murders created the most intense excitement
among the Indians. They became infuriated at the idea of bloodshed. Before the whites were
aware that trouble was brewing, Little Six's, Little Crow's, Grey Iron's, and Good Road's bands
of M'dewakantons, and a part of the Lake Calhoun band, gathered around the buildings, and,
with a general rush and yell, massacred the whites, some twenty-five in number, robbed and
plundered the stores, and laid the whole place in ashes.

The party who were conveying the annuity money to the Agency, reached Fort Ridgely on the afternoon
of the same day, and there learned that the outbreak had taken place. A garrison of about seventy-five
men was in the fort at the time the news of the massacre reached it, and Captain Marsh, taking
fifty of them, proceeded toward the Agency, fifteen miles up the river. In the evening twenty-one
of the men returned, to tell that the detachment had fallen into an ambush, and that all the
others, including the captain, were either killed or drowned.

The Indians seem to have at once despatched messengers with the news of these hostilities to
the bands at the Upper Sioux Agency, at Yellow Medicine. The chiefs there immediately called
their followers into council. About one hundred Sissetons, Wahpetons, and thirty young Yanktons,
were present. The council was stormy, and divided in sentiment; the Sissetons urging the killing
and robbing of the whites, saying the M'dewakantons had already gone so far that they could
not make matters worse, and that, as the whites would inflict punishment upon all alike, the
best thing to be done was to kill them and take their goods. The Wahpeton chiefs, though willing
to rob the whites, insisted on sparing their lives, and sending them off with their horses
and wagons across the prairies.

About one fourth of the Sioux, previous to these events, had, through the efforts of the Government
and missionaries, renounced their savage life, and adopted the customs of civilization. They
had cut off the hair, discarded the blanket, adopted the civilized costume, and undertaken
to live by the cultivation of the earth, instead of the chase. One of the chiefs who joined
in this reform was An-pe-tu-to-ke-ca, or Other-Day, an Indian of more than ordinary intelligence
and ability. He had been much among the whites, and was a convert to Christianity. Some years
previous, while he was at Washington city with a delegation of his tribe, a rather good-looking
white woman, who had lost caste in society, fell in love with him, married him, and followed
him to his Indian home in Minnesota.

Other-Day took part in this deliberation. He arose and addressed the council, warning them
against the consequences of the attack they were meditating. They might succeed in killing
a few whites, he told them, but extermination or expulsion would be their fate if they did.
But his pacific arguments produced no effect. Toward evening, the Yanktons, Sissetons, and
a few of the Wahpetons rose from the council, and moved toward the houses of the whites, to
prepare for the attack. All the afternoon the Indians had been busy taking their guns to the
blacksmith shop to have them repaired, which the unsuspecting smith, being told they were going
on a buffalo hunt, had done.

Other-Day now left the council, took his wife and his gun, and went to warn the whites of the
impending danger. They had, up to this time, known nothing whatever of the council. At his
suggestion, sixty-two persons assembled in one of the Agency buildings, gathered their arms,
and prepared to defend themselves. Part of the farmer Indians assisted Other-Day in standing
guard round the house that night, part of them guarded the house of Rev. Mr. Riggs, their old
missionary, to whom they were very much attached, and another part joined the insurgents.

Small bands of hostile Indians were seen prowling around the house during the night, and by
the next morning it was nearly surrounded. At daybreak, several shots were fired near the warehouses,
some distance away, and then a triumphant yell was heard from the Indians as they broke into
the stores and killed the inmates. At this, the savages who had prowled around the house during
the night ran off to the scene of the riot to share in the booty; and even the farmer Indians
who had stood guard for the whites, excepting only Other-Day, followed them.

Other-Day now advised the whites to make their escape, and offered to pilot them out of danger.
They were at first inclined to doubt his faithfulness; but in their extremity, finally consented
to follow him. While the hostile Indians were occupied in the work of plundering the stores
and warehouses, the whites managed to collect three two-horse wagons, and two buggies, and
placing as many of the women and children as they could in these, the party, sixty-two persons
in all, started off in a direction opposite to the usually travelled route. They reached and
forded the Minnesota River, eluded pursuit, and after a three days' march of great severity
and privation, under the faithful and successful guidance of Other-Day, they arrived at a place
of safety. True among the treacherous, he should be gratefully remembered, and liberally rewarded
and protected for the remainder of his life, by the people of Minnesota and the Government
of the United States.

                                                      An-pe-tu-to-ke-ca.
                                                           (Other-Day.)"

Another party of about forty persons escaped from the vicinity of Yellow Medicine, under the
guidance of the missionary, Rev. Mr. Riggs, who was also warned and aided by a few of the farmer
Indians.

Having thus successfully attacked and destroyed the Lower Agency, at Redwood, and the Upper
Agency, at Yellow Medicine, and having obtained large supplies of arms and ammunition from
the stores and warehouses they sacked at these points, part of the Indians divided into small
marauding bands, and scoured the country, attacking and murdering isolated settlers, burning
houses, and stealing horses and cattle; but the larger portion remained together, and, under
the leadership of Little Crow, planned further attacks.

Fifteen miles below the Lower Agency, on the north bank of the Minnesota, is Fort Ridgely;
and twenty miles below the fort, on the southern bank of the river, is the town of New Ulm,
which, as its name indicates, is mainly populated by German settlers. Early in the afternoon
of Tuesday, August 19th, a party of citizens from New Ulm, returning from a neighboring village,
where they had gone to aid in recruiting volunteers for the Union army, were fired upon from
an ambush by a number of mounted Indians, and several of them killed. Those who escaped had
barely time to get back to New Ulm and give the alarm before the Indians advanced upon the
town, and began firing at long range upon the distressed and panic-stricken inhabitants, who
were huddled together, in helpless confusion, in a few of the more protected houses. Fortunately,
a squad of eighteen armed men from one of the lower counties had arrived there an hour or two
previous. Only six of the number had good guns; but they immediately organized themselves,
and went forward to meet the savages. By dint of determined coolness and bravery, they held
the Indians at bay, killing several of them, until, seeing the town reënforced by another small
party of mounted whites, the savages retreated. The fight lasted two or three hours, and a
number of the Germans were killed.

Beaten back from New Ulm, the Indians retraced their course up the river, and being joined
by other bands, a concerted and deliberate attack was next made on Fort Ridgely. Like too many
of our frontier forts, it is a fort only in name. Situated on a projecting spur of the river
bluff, it is almost completely encircled by deep and wooded ravines, the edges of which are
within a stone's throw of the buildings. A long, two story stone building with an ell, standing
in the centre, and a number of log and frame houses ranged around it in an irregular circle,
with several barns and outhouses beyond them, constitute what is called the fort, but what
is really only barracks for a small number of troops.

When on Monday Captain Marsh left the fort to quell the disturbances at the Agency, only about
twenty-five soldiers remained to protect it. After his party was cut up in ambush, only twenty-one,
wounded and all, returned. Luckily, however, on Tuesday, two detachments of reënforcements,
of about fifty men each, reached the garrison in safety. On the other hand, from the beginning
of the outbreak, the women and children of the surrounding country who had escaped massacre,
sometimes a whole family, sometimes only a single member--now a mother, and then a child--fresh
from the scenes of savage violence and blood, had been fleeing to the fort for safety, until
the number had been swelled to some three hundred. Six cannon, a few old condemned muskets,
and considerable supplies of provisions were fortunately in the fort. Such hurried preparations
for defence as could be, were soon made. Small squads of Indians were seen prowling about during
Monday and Tuesday, but they were promptly scattered by a shell from the howitzer, accurately
planted by the veteran artillery sergeant who was in charge of the guns.

At a quarter past three o'clock on Wednesday afternoon, about three or four hundred Indians,
led by Little Crow, advanced under cover of the woods and ravines to the attack of the garrison.
It was a complete surprise, the first announcement being a deadly volley through one of the
north entrances into the parade ground of the fort. For a moment there was uncontrollable confusion
and alarm among the whites, and had a storming assault immediately followed, the fort must
have fallen. The garrison, however, quickly rallied, manned the guns, and poured a steady fire
on their assailants. The Indians, as usual, took shelter behind every available cover--trees,
ravines, outhouses, high grass and logs--the whites directing their return shots as best they
could. In this way, a brisk fusilade was kept up until half-past six o'clock in the evening.
A number of the outbuildings were fired by the enemy, but the flames did not reach the fort.
The houses that remained nearer the fort were destroyed by the garrison after the enemy withdrew.
The garrison lost twelve or fifteen men killed and wounded in this engagement.

A night of terrible anxiety and suspense succeeded, but there was no further disturbance. On
the next day, Thursday, two more attacks, each lasting about half an hour, were made, one at
nine o'clock in the morning, and the other at six in the evening, but they were much feebler
than the previous one, and easily repulsed.

The final and most desperate attack occurred on Friday, the twenty-second. The garrison was
engaged in strengthening its defences, when, at one o'clock in the afternoon, the sentinel
saw at two miles distance great numbers of Indians approaching on horseback. As they neared
the fort they dismounted, and advancing from three different points under cover of the ravines,
where the shells from the field pieces could do them but little damage, they opened a terrible
fire on the garrison. But the previous two days' siege had steadied the nerves of the whites,
and they received the onslaught coolly, reserving their fire until they could obtain a fair
view of the enemy, and do effective execution. The "big guns," of which Indians stand in so
great dread, were also well served. The fight raged all the afternoon, from two until half
past six o'clock. Once the savages pressed up so near that the halfbreeds in the fort could
distinguish the shout of the chiefs ordering a charge for the purpose of capturing the guns.
It was a concerted movement; a feint to draw the fire of the field pieces, and an immediate
rush was made to secure them before they could be reloaded. But the old artillery sergeant
was not to be trapped; he reserved the fire of his own gun, and when the storming party emerged
into open view, he planted a shell among them which sent them howling back to their shelter.
At nightfall the savages reluctantly gave up the siege and retired, carrying away a considerable
number of killed and wounded. Those in the fort escaped miraculously; only one man being killed,
and three or four slightly wounded.

The next morning, Saturday, the Indians were seen again approaching the fort, apparently to
renew the attack; but it was soon discovered they were withdrawing, to wreak their thwarted
vengeance on the devoted town of New Ulm. In the interim since the first attack, the town had
been reënforced by about one hundred volunteers, and had also been put in a partial state of
defence. Fire, murder, and pillage marked the way of the savages toward it; the garrison noted
their approach by the clouds of smoke which the burning dwellings of the settlers sent up to
heaven.

The Indians reached and again attacked New Ulm, on Sunday morning at about eleven o'clock.
The commanding officer of the whites had placed pickets, and a considerable part of his force
to support them, along the outer edge of the town toward the foe; but so fierce and impetuous
was the attack, that the whites were forced back into the town at the first onset of the enemy,
giving them possession of several of the outer buildings, from which they pushed their further
operations. But the garrison soon rallied, and obstinately held their ground. Finding themselves
so unexpectedly held at bay, the Indians, who were to the windward, set fire one after another
to the buildings they held, thus literally burning their way into the town. All day long this
continued. Toward evening, the whites found they had been forced back, inch by inch, by the
fire and smoke and the swift leaden messengers of death, until nearly one half of the town
was lost; but they rallied once more, made a vigorous charge on the foe, and drove them out.
At this the Indians withdrew, forming themselves into three parties, and camped a short distance
off, making the night hideous with fiendish yells and the horrid music of their war dances.
During the night the garrison retreated into a still smaller and more defensible part of the
town, committing the rest to flames. A brief demonstration was made by the enemy on the following
morning, but finding the whites so well posted, they finally abandoned the contest and withdrew.
The whites, exhausted and cut up, joyfully welcomed a cessation of hostilities. During the
day they evacuated the town, bringing off what remained of the garrison in safety. In this
battle they lost ten killed, and about fifty wounded, while the Indians lost about forty. They
were seen to haul off four wagon loads of dead.

The events thus far narrated cover a period of nine days, and, though forming the principal
ones, were by no means the only events of that brief time. The contagion of murder, arson,
and rapine spread over the whole area of country on which the Indians lived and roved, embracing
a district one hundred miles in width by two hundred in length. Fort Abercrombie, situated
at the upper end of this vast tract, was surrounded and besieged, as Fort Ridgely at the lower
end had been. Throughout the intermediate region, scattering parties of the savages appeared
in the isolated villages and settlements, spreading death and desolation. Local conditions
exaggerated and heightened the horrors of the insurrection. The population of Minnesota, and
particularly of these exposed regions, unlike that of the lower Western States, whose settlers,
trained in border warfare, were familiar with savage craft and cruelty, and inherited the prowess
and spirit of daring adventure which possessed Daniel Boone, was largely made up of foreign
emigrants, Germans, French, Norwegians, and Swedes. They were unaccustomed to danger, and unused
to arms. They had lived for years in confidence and daily intercourse with the Indians. Engaged
in the absorbing labor of building and providing their new homes, they were without guns or
other weapons of defence. Still worse, the war for the Union had called into its ranks a large
proportion of their young, active, and able-bodied men, and left only the women and children
to gather the harvest and guard the hearthstone. Upon their heads this storm burst suddenly,
and with a terror which deprived them of all courage and resource to resist it. Emboldened
by the feeble opposition they met, and maddened by the carnival of blood in which they rioted,
the savages indulged in cruelties and barbarities too horrible to recount in detail. Those
who escaped the tomahawk and scalping knife fled in consternation and dismay, abandoning their
little earthly all, leaving their cattle astray on the prairies, and their crops uncut and
ungathered in the fields; some fleeing with such precipitation as to leave their food untouched
on the table, where but a moment before it had been spread for the daily repast. Women and
children wandered for days in the woods, subsisting on nuts and berries. Every road was lined
with fugitives, and all the villages were crowded with their surrounding population. The refugees
poured by hundreds into the city of St. Paul, situated from eighty to one hundred and fifty
miles from the scenes of the outbreak; and many, who were able to do so, embarked on the first
departing steamers, and hurried away from the State. It is estimated that ten large and flourishing
counties were almost completely depopulated.

It so happened that a portion of the volunteers recruited for the Union army had not yet been
ordered out of the State. Though poorly equipped and supplied, they were at once sent into
the field against the Indians, and they served as a nucleus around which the irregular organizations
could rally. Every old gun, pistol, knife, or other weapon was cleaned up; every pound of powder
and lead was bought and distributed; and horses were impressed by military authority, with
which to extemporize cavalry companies. The surrounding States promptly sent what aid they
could in men, guns, and cartridges. The Governor by proclamation authorized the formation of
companies of scouts and rangers in the threatened neighborhoods. Very soon after the outbreak,
Colonel H. H. Sibley, an experienced frontiersman, having a thorough knowledge of Indian habits
and character, was on the march against them, with about one thousand men. The General Government
augmented these forces as rapidly as possible, and sent Major-General Pope to assume command
of the Indian Department.

Hearing of Colonel Sibley's approach, Little Crow retreated to Yellow Medicine, taking with
him a large baggage train of plunder, and about one hundred white prisoners, chiefly women
and children, whom he had captured at different places, and whom, with a few exceptions, they
did not specially maltreat, but compelled to labor at camp drudgery.

Colonel Sibley pushed on with his forces, sending in advance a cavalry detachment, which reached
and relieved Fort Ridgely on the 27th of August, after it had been besieged for nine days.
He himself arrived at that post with the remainder of his troops on the following day. On the
31st, he sent out a detachment of two companies, one mounted, a fatigue party of twenty men,
and seventeen teams and teamsters, to reconnoitre the neighboring settlements and to bury the
dead. They proceeded to the Minnesota river opposite the Lower Agency, and found and buried
sixteen corpses the first day. The next day they continued their search, finding and burying
fifty-four. That night they encamped on the open prairie, near the upper timber of the Birch
Coolie creek, three miles from the Lower Agency. At about four o'clock of the next morning,
September 2, one of their sentinels shouted, "Indians!" and almost immediately, a shower of
balls rained upon the camp. From this first fire, and during the confusion attending it, the
detachment suffered severely. They soon, however, gained the shelter of their wagons, and from
behind them and the piles of dead horses which literally covered the ground, they returned
a vigorous fire upon their assailants, meanwhile digging a rifle pit as they fought. It was
a fierce morning's battle, and the foe, in largely superior numbers, had nearly surrounded
and captured them when reënforcements arrived. So hot was the attack, that one of the tents
was found to have one hundred and forty bullet holes through it.

The boldness and severity of this attack, demonstrated to Colonel Sibley the necessity for
an increase of force and very cautious movements, and accordingly he fell back to the neighborhood
of Fort Ridgely. Anxious also to obtain the release of the white prisoners in Little Crow's
camp, and fearing that if he won a decided success in battle they would be murdered, he determined
to resort to negotiation. He therefore wrote the following note and left it fastened to a stake,
on the ground where the last battle had taken place:

     'If Little Crow has any propositions to make to me, let him send a
     halfbreed to me, and he shall be protected in and out of my camp.

                                                           H. H. SIBLEY,
                                         Col. Com. Military Expedition.'

A day or two afterward, two halfbreeds came into his camp under a flag of truce, bringing a
note signed 'Little Crow, his mark,' excusing and justifying his attack on the whites. Colonel
Sibley replied, 'Little Crow, you have murdered many of our people without cause. Return me
the prisoners under a flag of truce, and I will talk with you like a man.' After the lapse
of a few days, another message came from Little Crow, stating that he had one hundred and fifty-five
prisoners, and asking what he could do to make peace. Colonel Sibley replied that his young
men had been committing more murders, and that was not the way to make peace.

Having learned from several sources that serious dissensions had broken out in the Indian camp,
and having also received the needed reënforcements, Colonel Sibley left Fort Ridgely on the
12th of September, and marched up the Minnesota river to Wood Lake, near Yellow Medicine, arriving
there on the 22d following. Little Crow was encamped in the vicinity with his braves. The savages,
however, had become demoralized, and he could no longer control them. Little Crow desired to
make an attack that night, but his opponents told him in council that if he was a brave Indian
he would fight the white man by daylight. Accordingly, next morning he attacked Colonel Sibley's
forces with three hundred of his warriors, the others refusing to join in the fight. After
a sharp two-hours' battle the Indians were completely routed, losing thirty killed, and a proportionate
number of wounded. The whites lost four killed, and forty wounded.

This battle substantially ended the war. The Indians retreated, and the whites pursued them
to Lac Qui Parle. Four days afterward, a camp of about one hundred and fifty lodges of Indians
and halfbreeds separated from Little Crow's party, met Colonel Sibley in council, surrendered
themselves, and formally delivered up to him ninety-one white prisoners, and over one hundred
halfbreeds, whom they had obtained. Other parties came in afterward, surrendering themselves
unconditionally, until between two and three thousand Indians, of all sexes and ages, were
in the hands of the troops as prisoners of war. A military commission was appointed to try
the ringleaders and worst offenders, and over three hundred of them were convicted and sentenced
to death. Before this paper is printed, some, at least, of these, will have expiated their
crimes on the gallows. Little Crow, with a small but desperate band of followers, succeeded
in making his escape to Devil's Lake in Dakota Territory.

The future disposition of the Indians of the State of Minnesota is one of the most perplexing
minor questions of the day. In their present location, the feud of race engendered by the insurrection
will only die with the generation that witnessed its beginning. Humanitarian impulses and humanitarian
duties are forgotten in the fierce thirst for private vengeance. With one voice, the people
of that State demand the removal or threaten the extermination of their dangerous neighbors.
But whither shall they go? The swallowing tides of civilization encompass them on the east,
the north, and the south; and the only other avenue, the west, is guarded by the gaunt wolf
starvation.

It is proposed by some to colonize them on the island of Isle Royale, in Lake Superior; by
others, to purchase some small West India island, and transport them there, where tropical
nature will feed them without expense to the Government. Perhaps the more practical measure
would be to gather all that remains of the red race within the United States into one Territory,
to establish a more thorough guardianship over them, and to subject them to a stricter and
more absolute government, which should compel them to assume gradually the duties and customs
of civilized life.

'DEAD!'

           With chilling breath it comes:
   Again--and yet again! on every gale,
     America! from thy great battle field!
           Our hearts are hushed, and desolate our homes--
   Our lids are heavy, and our cheeks are pale--
               While thus we yield
             Our loved ones up to thee!

         Dead! dying at their posts!
   The young, the noble, and the loving ones!
     The widow's all! the gray-haired father's hope--
         All thine, my country! take the treasured hosts:
   Hold in thy faithful keeping all thy sons!
               We give them up--
             To thee and liberty!

           Oh, keep our honored dead
   Within the folds of thy great-pulsing heart!
     Entwine their memory with thy polished lore:
           Cherish the sacred dust above their bed
   Who sprang to shield thee from the traitor's dart!
             Bless evermore
           The dead who died for thee!

         Silent the teardrops fall
   Down the pale mother's cheek at close of day;
     For sorrow sitteth at the widow's gate:
         Dark are the shadows gathered on the wall,
   And where the mourner bendeth low to pray--
             No more to wait
           The coming of her free!

           For thee--'dear native land!'
   What precious hopes are severed one by one!
     What hearts lie crushed and sick by 'hope deferred!'
           How many dear ones, stretched along the sand,
   Bleed out their lives beneath a blighting sun--
             With but a word--
           'Mother!' for plaint or prayer!

         Shall they be vainly shed--
   The blood and tears that wash our stricken soil?
     Bringing no healing with their torrent streams?
         Vain the long requiem for the noble dead--
   Vain all the agony and all the toil--
             The soldier's dreams--
           The patriot's thought and care?

           No! float upon the winds!
   Flag of my country! let thy stars give light
     To nations of the earth! proclaim afar
           The end of tyrant rule that madly binds
   Our millions down beneath a fearful blight!
             Float--every star!
           We have not one to spare!

A MERCHANT'S STORY.

     'ALL of which I saw, and part of which I was.'

CHAPTER IX.

After dinner, we rode over my friend's plantation. It contained about twelve hundred acres,
mainly covered with forest trees, but with here and there an isolated patch of cleared land
devoted to corn and cotton. A small tributary of the Trent formed its northern boundary, and
bordering the little stream was a tract of three hundred acres of low, swampy ground, heavily
timbered with cypress and juniper. Tall old pines, denuded of bark for one third of their height,
and their white faces bearded with long, shining flakes of 'scrape turpentine,' crowned the
uplands; and scattered among them, about a hundred well-clad, 'well-kept' negro men and women
were shouting pleasantly to one another, or singing merrily some simple song of 'Ole Car'lina,'
as with the long scrapers they peeled the glistening scales from the scarified trees, or, gathering
them in their aprons, 'dumped' them into the rude barrels prepared for their reception. Preston
had a kind word for each one that we passed--a pleasant inquiry about an infirm mother or a
sick child, or some encouraging comment on their cheerful work; and many were the hearty blessings
they showered upon 'good massa,' and many their good-natured exclamations over 'de strange
gemman dat sells massa's truck.'

'He'm de kine, 'ou gals,' shouted an old darky, bent nearly double with age, who, leaning against
one of the barrels, was 'packing down' the flakes as they were emptied from the aprons of the
women: 'He'm de kine, I tell by him eye; de rocks doan't grow fass ter dat gemman's pocket!'

'Well, they don't, uncle,' I replied, tossing him a half-dollar piece, and throwing a handful
of smaller coin among the women. A general scramble followed, in which the old fellow nimbly
joined, shouting out between his boisterous explosions of merriment:

'Dis am de sort, massa; dis am manna rainin' in de wilderness--de Lord's chil'ren lub dis kine--it'm
good ter take, massa, good ter take.'

'Good as black jack, eh, uncle?' I inquired, laughing, for I saw certain lines about his shrunken
mouth, and underneath his sunken eyes, which told plainly he was rather too familiar with that
delicious compound of strychnine and whiskey.

'Yas, massa, good as black Jack; dat's my name, massa, dat's my name--yah, yah,' and he turned
his face, wet with merry tears, and distended in an uncommonly broad grin, up to mine. In a
moment, however, his eye caught Preston's. His broad visage collapsed, his distended mouth
shrank to a very diminutive opening, and his twinkling eyes assumed a peculiarly stolid expression,
as he added, in a deprecatory tone:

'No, massa Robert, not so good as black jack; not so good as dat--'ou knows I doan't keer fur
him; you knows I doan't knows him no more, massa Robert.'

'I know you never knew him,' replied Preston, playing on his name. 'He's a hardened old sinner.
He has sinned away the day of grace, I'm sure. But you know better than to ask presents of
strangers. Give it back to the gentleman at once.'

An indescribable expression stole over the old negro's visage as he thrust his hand through
his thin, frosty wool, looked pleadingly up at his master's face, and, seeing no signs of relenting
there, slowly and reluctantly opened his palm and offered me the money.

'No, no, Preston, let him keep it; it won't do him any harm,' I said.

'No more'n it woan't, good massa, not a morsel ob harm,' exclaimed the darky, his small eyes
twinkling again with pleasurable anticipation, and his broad face widening into its accustomed
grin: 'I woan't take nary a drop, massa Robert, nary a drop!'

'Well,' said his master, 'you can keep it if you'll promise not to drink it all to-morrow.
So much whiskey would spoil your prayer at the meeting.'

'So it 'ould, massa Robert; so much as dat; but Jack allers prays de stronger fur a little,
massa Robert, jess a little--it sort o' 'pears ter warm up a ole man's sperrets, and ter fotch
all de 'votion right inter him froat.'

'I suppose it does; all the devotion you ever feel. You're an old sinner, Jack, past praying
for, I fear,' replied Preston, good-naturedly, turning his horse to go.

'Not pass prayin' fur 'ou, massa Robert, not pass dat, an' ole Jack neber will be, nudder--not
so long as he kin holler loud 'nuff fur de Lord ter yere. 'Ou may 'pend on dat, massa Robert,
'ou may 'pend on dat.'

As we rode away, I asked Preston if the old black led the services at the negro meetings.

'Yes, I am obliged to let him. He was formerly the plantation preacher, and, with all his faults,
the blacks are much attached to him. A small rebellion broke out among them, five years ago,
when I displaced him, and put Joe into the pulpit. I compromised the difficulty by agreeing
that Jack should lead in prayer every Sunday morning. They think he has a gift that way, and
you would conclude the day of Pentecost had come, if you should hear him when he is about half-seas-over.'

'Then he does pray better for a little whiskey?'

'Yes, a mug of 'black jack' helps him amazingly--it gives him the real power.'

After a two hours' circuit of the plantation, we halted in the vicinity of the distilleries,
which stood huddled together on the bank of the little stream of which I have spoken. There
were three of them, each of thirty barrels' capacity--an enormous size--and they were neatly
set in brick, and enclosed in a substantial framed structure, which was weatherboarded and
coated with paint of a dark brown color. Near the only one then in operation were several large
heaps of flake turpentine, three or four hundred barrels of rosin, and a vast quantity of the
same material scattered loosely about and mixed with broken staves, worn-out strainers, and
the debris of the rosin bins. Pointing to the confused mass, I said to my host:

'I've half a mind to turn missionary. I feel a sort of call to preach to you Southern heathen.'

'I wish you would,' he rejoined, laughing; 'you'd give me a chance to laugh at your sermons,
as you have laughed at mine.'

'No, you wouldn't laugh. I'd make you feel way down in your pocket. I'd have but one sermon
and one text, and that would be: 'Gather up the fragments, that nothing be lost.' You Southern
nabobs do nothing but waste--you waste enough in one day to feed the whole North for a week.
It's a sin--the unpardonable sin--for you know better.'

'Well, it is wrong, but how can we help it? We can't make the negroes anything but what they
are--shiftless and careless of everything but their own ease.'

'I don't know about that. I think such a man as Joe ought to be able to manage them.'

'Joe! Well, he can't. He's all drive, and negroes are human beings; they should be treated kindly.'

We had approached the front of the still, and were fastening our horses to the trunk of a tree,
when we heard loud voices issuing from the other side of the enclosure.

'Her'm what I owes you--now pack off ter onst, and don't neber show your face on dis plantation
no more,' said a voice, which I at once recognized as that of 'boss Joe.'

'I shan't pack off till I'm ready, you d--d black nigger, I've been bossed 'bout by ye long
'nuff. Clar out, and 'tend ter yer own 'fairs,' rejoined another voice, which had the tone
of a white man's.

'I reckon dis am my 'fair, and I shan't leff you git drunk and burn up no more white rosum
yere; so take yerseff off. Ef you don't, I'll make you blacker nor I is.'

'Put your hand on me, and I'll take the law on ye, shore,' returned the white man.

'Pshaw, you drunken fool, do you s'pose dese darkies would tell on me? Ef dey would, dar word
ain't 'lowed in de law; so you trabble. I don't keer ter handle you, but I shill ef you don't
leab widin five minutes.'

What might have followed will not go down in history, for just then Preston and I, emerging
from around the corner of the building, appeared in view of the belligerents. The native--a
respectable specimen of the class of poor whites--stood in a defiant attitude before the still-fire,
while Joe was seated on a turpentine barrel near, quietly noting the time by a large silver
watch which he held in his hand. He kept on counting the minutes, and gave no heed to his master's
approach, till Preston said:

'Joe, what's to pay?'

'Nuffin, master Robert, 'cept I'se 'scharged dis man, and he say he won't gwo.'

'Do as Joseph bids you,' said Preston, turning to the white man, 'take your pay and go at once.'

The man stammered out a few words with a cringing air, but the planter cut him short with:

'I want no explanations. If you can't satisfy Joseph, you can't satisfy me.'

The native then leisurely took down a ragged coat that hung from one of the timbers, counted
over a small roll of bank notes which Joe gave him, and meekly left the still-house.

Joe and his master devoted the next half hour to piloting me over the distilleries. I commented
rather freely on the sad waste of valuable produce which was scattered about, and on the bad
economy of keeping three 'stills' to do the work of one.

'It might have done years ago,' I remarked, 'before your trees ran to 'scrape,' and when they
yielded enough 'dip' to keep all the stills busy; but now they are eating you up. You have
fully four thousand dollars idle here. Sell them, Preston--that amount would help you out of debt.'

'Dat's what I tells master Robert, Mr. Kirke, but he sort o' clings to ole tings, sar,' said
Joe, in the free, familiar tone usual with him.

'But you do just as badly, Joe,' I replied. 'You let these darkies waste more than they eat,
and you keep four here to do the work of three. You are no better than your master.'

'Only half so good, Mr. Kirke,' rejoined the black, showing a set of teeth which a dentist
might have used for a door plate; 'only half so good, 'case I'se only half white. But, if master
Robert 'ould leff me handle de whip, I'd show him suffin'! I reckon de int'rest 'ouldn't be
ahind den.'

'Why? don't you let Joe whip the negroes?' I asked Preston.

'No, not now; I did, till some years ago, when he almost killed one of them, and came near
getting me into serious trouble. He could manage them well enough without whipping, if he'd
curb his impetuous temper a little.'

'But I does curb it, master Robert, and it tain't ob no use. Dey knows I can't whip 'em, an'
dey don't keer fur de starvin', or de tyin' up, or de talkin' to in de meetin'. Dey don't mind
fur nuffin' but de whip, an' a little ex'cise wid dat does a nigger good when he'm right down
'fractory. And you has 'lowed, master Robert, dat I warn't so much ter blame in dat 'fair ob
Black Cale.'

'Well, perhaps you weren't. It's a good story, Kirke; did I ever tell it to you?'

'No; I'd be glad to hear it.'

'Come, Joe,' said his master, good-naturedly, 'you can tell it better than I. You know it by
heart.'

'Well, master, if you says so,' replied Joe; and as we seated ourselves in a semicircle on
some rosin barrels, the black proceeded to give the following illustration of the working of
free and slave institutions:

'Well, you see, Mr. Kirke, de darky's name wus Black Cale, an' he wus a raised up 'long wid
me by de ole gemman--dat am master Robert's gran'fer. He wus allers a hard-bitted, 'fractory
darky, but he wus smart, awful smart, and could do a heap ob work when a minded to; but he
wusn't a minded to bery of'en, an' ole master used to hab ter flog him--flog him bery hard.
Well, finarly, de ole gemman grow'd tired ob doin' so much ob dat, an' he call Cale ter him
one day, an' he say:

''Cale, you'se a likely nigger, an' I don't like ter flog you so much. Now, I'll leff you hire
you' time, an' gwo down ter Newbern, an' shirk fur you'seff.'

'Ole master knowed Cale wus habin' a bad 'fect on de oder darkies, an' he 'lowed 'twould be
cheap leffin' him gwo ef he didn't get a picayune fur him. Well, Cale, he took ter dat ter
onst, an' he 'greed to gib ole master one fifty a year fur his time; an' so he put off ter
Newbern. Well, ebery ting gwo on right smart till de ole gemman die. Cale, he work hard, pay
master ebery year, and sabe up quite a heap. Well, ole master die widout a will, an' all de
property gwo ter de two sons; dat am master James an' master Thomas--he war master Robert's
fader. Now master James he neber lib'd on de plantation, so he sold all his half ob de nigs
to master Thomas, an' put all de 'vails inter his bisness down dar ter Mobile, whar he am now,
doin' a heap in de cotton way. But he didn't sell his half ob Cale, 'case master Thomas wouldn't
buy him, nohow. Well, dey owned Cale tugedder fur a spell, an' Cale he work on right smart,
till one day master James come home, and he tells master Thomas dat on de way he'd a stopped
at Newbern, and sole his half ob Cale ter Cale heseff, fur five hundred dollar, and giben him
de free papers. Well, den Cale he want to buy de oder half ob heseff ob master Thomas, an'
master Thomas he offer to take de same money; but Cale say de oder half not wuth so much as
de fust, an' dat he wouldn't gib only two fifty.'

'Not worth so much--why not?' I asked.

'Why, Cale say 'case he could do what he like wid de free half, and he reckoned he shouldn't
be quite so 'sponsible den fur de slave half,' and here Joe broke into a merry fit of laughter,
in which Preston joined.

'Well, master Thomas an' Cale couldn't 'gree 'bout de buyin', but Cale promise to gib seventy-five
dollar a year fur de use ob master's half, an' he gwo off agin ter Newbern. Den de time gwo
by fur a yar or two, but master neber git nary dime out ob Cale fur his half. Cale would say
dat only half ob him wus free, an' de oder half wasn't 'sponsible, and couldn't pay its debts,
nohow. Finarly, master, seein' he couldn't git nuffin out ob Cale, only offers ob two fifty
fur de oder half--and dat he wouldn't take, nohow--sent me down to Newbern to sort o' mediate
'tween Cale an' he. Well, I coaxed Cale to 'gree to wuck one monfh for heseff and de oder monfh
fur massa, and I come home; but it warn't ob no use; Cale would wuck, but massa neber seed
a fip ob de pay. Finarly, af'er he'd a gone on dat way 'bout ten yar, stowin' 'way what he
arned whar nobody could fine it, an' allers off'rin' two fifty fur de oder half ob heseff,
master Thomas he die, and master Robert he come ter lib on de plantation. Den master Robert
axed me what he should do wid Cale, and I tole him to take de two fifty, and leff him gwo.
But he say, 'no,' dat he wouldn't sell him fur dat, nohow.' And here the black looked slyly
at his master, and a merry twinkle came into his eyes. 'Well, den, I tole master Robert dat
I tought I could fix Cale ef he'd leff me manage him jess as I like. He 'greed to dat, an'
I gwoes down to Newbern, an' makes Cale come home, an' den I say to him:

''Now, Cale, you stay yere, an' gwo to wuck. Ebery monfh you wuck fur me, an' ebery oder monfh
you wuck fur you'seff, an' when you wuck fur you'seff I pay you so much fur ebery barr'l ob
dip, an' so much fur ebery barr'l ob scrape, an' so much fur ebery day when you wuck roun';
an' I makes you pay so much fur what you lib on. Well, Cale, he 'gree to dat. He wuck de fust
monfh fur heseff, an' he did wuck--he done twice so much as any hand on de plantation; but
de next monfh, when he wuck fur me, he don't do nuffin but lay 'bout, an' git drunk. I stood
dat till de monfh wus up--fur I neber did take ter whippin' de nigs, an' master Robert know
dat--an' den w'en Cale wus clean sober, I tied him up to gib him a floggin'. Well, w'en he
wus a stripped, an' I was jess gwine to lay on de lashes, Cale say to me, says he:

''Look a yere, 'ou Joe, 'ou may whip massa's half ob dis nig jess so long as 'ou likes, but
ef 'ou put de lash onter my half, I'll take de law on 'ou. I will, shore.'

'Dat sot me a tinkin'; fur de fac wus, I'd nary right to flog his half; but den it 'curred
ter me dat none but darkies wus roun', an' so I tought I had him, shore. Well, I puts on de
lashes, an' he keeps a tellin' me he'd hab de law on me, which make me sort o' 'zasparated,
till I put 'em on right smart, an' at lass he gib in. Well, w'en I'd a got him a feelin' 'bout
right, an' wus only jess puttin' de lass blows on to finish up makin' a decent nigger ob him,
master Robert he come up, and when he seed de blood a runnin' down his back, he say Cale had
been whipped 'bout 'nough, and I must stop. Cale turned up missin' dat night, an' got off to
Newbern; an' shore 'nuff, de next evenin', long 'bout dark, de sherrif he rode up to de house
wid a writ fur master Robert fur habin' made 'salt an' batt'ry on one collud man, called Caleb
Preston, an' he pulled out a suspeny dat make massa Robert witness agin heseff! ha! ha! You
see Cale wus smart; he know'd master Robert b'longed to de Baptist meeting, an' wouldn't lie
fur all de niggers in Jones county; so he had him dar, ha! ha!'

Here Joe for some minutes was unable to continue the narrative. His merriment was contagious.
I laughed till my sides were sore, and Preston enjoyed the story quite as much as I did.

'Well, what was the end of it?' I asked.

'Only, master Robert hed to be toted off to Newbern dat night, git bail or sleep in de jail,
and de next mornin', af'er de nig hed a hed ten yars' use ob heseff fur nuffin, master Robert
hed to do what he'd a said, an' his fader afore him hed said, dey neber would do--dat is, take
two fifty fur de oder half ob Cale! Ha! ha! De next time I gwoes to Newbern I hunt Cale up,
an' I tell him he must study fur de law, shore; an' dat ef he done it, I know'd master Robert
would pay de 'spences, out ob lub to de country.'

The negroes who were attending the still had dropped their work to listen to Joe's story, and
at its close guffawed in a chorus that made the woods ring. Hearing it, Joe sprang to his feet,
shouting out: 'Yere--'bout you' wuck dar; leff me kotch you eavesdroppin' on gemmen agin, an'
I'll gib you what I gabe Cale. 'Bout you' wuck, I say.' They turned nimbly to their tasks,
and Joe resumed his seat.

'I see the moral of that story, Preston,' I said, when the negro had concluded.

'What is it?'

'That a darky may be as smart as a white man. Cale outwitted you.'

'Well, he did,' he replied, laughing; 'but that isn't the moral: it is that flogging never
accomplishes its object.'

'I'm not so sure of that. Joe had brought Cale to terms, 'made a decent nigger on him,' when
you, unluckily, interfered.'

'It ain't so much de floggin' on 'em, Mr. Kirke,' said Joe, 'as dar knowin' dat you will do
it ef dey desarve it. Dar ain't a darky on de plantation dat don't know master Robert an' de
good missus 'ould rader be flogged demselves dan flog dem; an' dat wucks bad, Mr. Kirke, sorry
bad;' and the negro shook his head with a grave, thoughtful air.

'Tell me, Preston,' I said, after a slight pause, 'how is it that your neighbor Dawsey, with
only seventy-five negroes, sends us more produce than you do with a hundred and fifty?'

'Simply because he treats his hands like brutes, while I treat mine like men.'

'I hope you'll take no offence,' I replied, 'but it appears to me there must be some other
reason. He has only half your number.'

'Well, I will tell you how he and I manage, and you can judge for yourself. Dawsey has seventy-five
slaves; forty child-bearing women, twenty men, and fifteen children under five years. The sixty
adults are all prime hands. They are given daily tasks, which they cannot possibly do in less
than fifteen hours, leaving them only nine hours out of the twenty-four for eating, sleeping,
feeding their children, and the waking rest necessary to working people. He never whips them
on a week day, because it wastes working time, but makes Sunday a general flogging season.
He has two women where he has one man, and each woman is expected to bear a child a year. If
she doesn't, she is sold. They are made to work in the field till the labor pains are on them;
and they are allowed only two weeks' rest after confinement. Three of them have borne children
in the woods this season. He keeps only one nurse for the fifteen children, and as soon as
each child is five years old--the age at which it can be legally sold away from its mother--it
is disposed of to the traders. In addition, three of these women are his own mistresses and
they are expected to have children as fast as the others. He serves their children like the
rest; that is, rears them to the age of five, and then sells them as he would so many hogs.'

'My God!' I exclaimed, 'he's a monster.'

'There are different opinions about that. Dawsey passes for a jovial good fellow; keeps open
house for his friends; spends money freely at the elections, and two years ago 'got religion'
at a camp meeting. He merely regards his slaves as chattels, and manages his plantation in
perhaps the only way that is profitable in an old section of country like this.'

'And how is it with you? How do you manage?' I asked.

'Leff me tell, master Robert,' said the black, smiling. 'I knows all de 'ticulars 'bout dat.'

'Well, go on,' said Preston, laughing, 'but don't be too hard on me.'

'We hab,' continued the black, 'countin' me in, a hundred an' fifty-one darkies, all in fam'lies--faders,
mudders, children, and some on 'em gran'faders and gran'mudders,'most all born on de plantation,
an' some on 'em livin' on it fur forty, fifty, sixty, an' seventy yar. Out ob dese, we hab
only forty-two full hands, 'case some ob de wimmin dat come in de ages fur full wuck am sickly,
puny tings, only fit fur house wuck or nussin'. From de whole I gits equal to fifty-four full
hands. 'Cordin' to master Robert's direction, I gib 'em easy ten-hour tasks; but suffin' or
anoder turn up 'most ebery day, so dat 'bout half on 'em don't do full wuck, an' I reckon dey
don't make, on de whole, more'n 'bout nine hour a day. So you see, Cunnel Dawsey, he hab sixty,
an' he wuck em fifteen hour a day; we hab only fifty-four, an' we wuck 'em nine hour a day;
an' 'cordin' to my 'rithmetic, dat would make de Cunnel turn out 'bout twice as much truck
as we does.'

'And you have twice as many mouths to feed as he,' I remarked; 'and the result is he makes
money, while you--'

'Lose nigh onter two thousand a year, Mr. Kirke, an' hab done it ebery yar fur five yar, eber
since master Robert come on to de plantation, an' gwo to workin' on human principles, as he
calls 'em.'

This was said in so sad and regretful a tone, that, in spite of the serious manner of both
the black and his master, I laughed heartily. When my merriment had somewhat subsided, I said:

'Joe, what would you do to mend this state of affairs?'

'It can't be mended if we stay in dis ole country, an' wuck 'cordin' to master Robert's notion.'

'Then you mean to say you can't apply humane principles to slave labor, in an old district
of country, and make money?'

'Yes,' said Preston, rising and pacing up and down in the small semi-circle formed by the rosin
barrels, 'that is what he means to say, and it is true.'

'Then how do the majority of turpentine planters in this section make money? They do make it,
that is certain.'

'By overworking their hands, as Dawsey does. All may not be as severe with them as he is, but
all overwork them, more or less,' replied Preston.

'I don't know 'bout dat, master Robert, twelve and eben firteen hour a day neber hurt a prime
hand, if he hab good feed.

'Well, it is six o'clock, and supper must be in waiting,' said Preston, drawing out his watch;
'we'll talk more on this subject to-night. Joe, bring the books up to the house this evening.
Mr. Kirke has promised to look into our affairs, and I shall need you.'

'Yas, master Robert,' replied the black; and, mounting the horses, Preston and I rode off to
the mansion.

CHAPTER X.

Mrs. Preston and master Joe were on the piazza awaiting us, and in the doorway we were met
by the younger children. Preston lifted one of them upon his shoulder, and taking another in
his arms, led the way to the supper room. However disturbed might be my friend's relations
with the outer world, all was peace by his cheerful fireside. No man was ever more blessed
in his home. His children were intelligent, loving, and obedient; his wife was one of those
rare women--seen nowhere more often than in the South--who, to a cultivated mind and polished
manners, add the more homely accomplishments of a good housewife. It is years since she laid
aside the weary cares of her plantation home, and entered on the higher duties of another life;
but her gentle words are still as fresh in my memory, her kindly image as warm in my heart,
as on that autumn day, when she placed her hand in mine for the last time, and spoke the last
'God bless you' which was to fall on my ears from her lips on this side of the grave. She was
a perfect woman--a faithful mistress, a loving wife, a devoted mother. Anticipating every want
of her husband, cheerfully instructing her children, overseeing every detail of her household,
meting out the weekly allowance of the negroes, visiting daily the cabins of the sick and the
infirm, and with her own hand dispensing the soothing cordial or the healing medicine,--or,
when all medicine failed, bending over the lowly bed of the dying, and pointing him to the
'better home on high,'--she was a ministering angel--a joy and a blessing to all about her.
She wore no costly silks, no diamonds on her fingers, or jewels in her hair; but she was arrayed
in garments all rich and beautiful with human love. She knew nothing--cared nothing--about
the right or the wrong of slavery; but cheerfully and prayerfully, never wearying and never
doubting, she went on in the lowly round of duties allotted her, leaning lovingly on the arm
of the GOOD ALL-FATHER, and looking steadfastly to HIM for guidance and support. And, truly,
she had her reward. 'Her children rose up and called her blessed; her husband, also, and he
praised her.'

Supper was soon over, when my hostess rose and conducted me to the library. That apartment
was in an L, detached from the mansion, and communicating with it by a covered passage way.
It was plainly furnished, but had a cosy, homelike appearance. Its four walls were lined with
books, some standing on end, some resting on their sides, and some leaning negligently against
each other; and over the massive centre table were scattered open volumes, old newspapers,
and unfinished manuscripts, in most delightful confusion. A half dozen old-fashioned chairs
straggled about the floor, as if they did not know exactly what to do with themselves, and
a score of old worthies--their faces white as chalk, and their long hair and beards powdered
with a whole generation of dust, looked complacently down from the top of the bookshelves.
Dust was on the table, on the chairs, on the floor, on the ceiling, and on the musty old volumes
ranged along the walls, and dust everywhere told unmistakably that no profane hand ever disturbed
the dusty repose which reigned in the apartment.

Two or three oaken logs, supported on bright brass andirons--the only bright things in the
room--were blazing cheerfully on the broad hearthstone; and drawing our chairs near, we sat
down before them.

'May I come in?' said master Joe, thrusting his head in at the half-closed doorway.

'No, my son,' answered his father; 'Mr. Kirke and I are to talk over business matters.'

'Do let him come, Robert,' said Mrs. Preston; 'he is old enough to learn something of such
affairs.'

The lad entered, and seating himself on a low stool by the side of his mother, and burying
his head in her lap, was soon fast asleep.

'This room, Mr. Kirke,' said the lady, 'is sacred to Robert and the dust. I beg you will not
think I have the care of it.'

'Oh no, madam; it is plain that a man has exclusive dominion here; but your husband has been
away from it for some time.'

'That does not account for the dust; it hasn't been stirred for a twelve-month;' and after
a pause, she added, a thin moisture glistening in her eyes, 'I have not yet thanked you, sir,
for saving Phyllis and the children from the clutches of that wretched trader.'

'No thanks are requisite, madam. It was a mere matter of business; we are in the practice of
making advances to our consignors.'

'Nevertheless we thank you, sir; Robert and I will ever be grateful for it.'

'Do not speak of it, madam; I would be glad to serve you to a much greater extent.'

The lady made no reply, and a rather embarrassing silence followed for some minutes, when I said:

'Preston, Joe is a remarkable negro; I think I never met one so intelligent and well informed.'

'He is very intelligent,' he replied; 'he has fine natural abilities.'

'It is a pity Nature gave him so dark a skin, and made him a--slave.'

'Not a pity, Mr. Kirke,' rejoined Mrs. Preston; 'Nature, or rather God, always puts us in our
right places. Joseph is more useful where he is than he would be anywhere else.'

'I understood him that he was raised on the plantation,' I added.

'Yes,' replied my host; 'my grandfather bought his mother, who is a native African, when she
was a girl; she was a favorite house-servant, and Joe was born in a room over where we are
sitting. This building was then all there was of the mansion.'

'And how did he pick up so much information?'

'The old gentleman, who gave little heed to either law or gospel, taught them both to read
and write.' (Years after the date of this conversation I learned that Joe was the son of that
lawless, graceless old gentleman.) 'And Joe, when a boy, read everything he could lay his hands
on. Since I brought my library here, he has devoured about half of the books in it. He devotes
every night, from eight o'clock to twelve, to reading.'

'I am surprised that with so much reading he uses so entirely the negro dialect.'

'But he does not. In common conversation he expresses himself in it, for it is the dialect
in which a black does his ordinary thinking; but let him get upon an elevated subject, as he
does frequently in his sermons, and you will hear words as strong, pure, and simple as any
found in the Bible, flow from him like a stream.'

'Does he preach every Sunday?'

'Yes; I usually catechize the people in the morning, and he preaches in the evening.'

'But do you learn all your negroes to read?'

'No, the law does not allow it. I teach them to repeat the catechism, texts of Scripture, and
passages from good books, and I explain these to them.'

'And Joe is your overseer?'

'Not exactly that. My father made him overseer about thirty years ago, but the law requires
a white man in that situation; and when I took charge of the plantation, the neighbors made
a clamor about my having a black. The result was, I 'whipped the devil round the stump,' by
hiring a white distiller, and calling him 'overseer.' I let Joe, however, 'oversee' him, as
you have seen to-day.'

A rap came then at the door, and master Joe, springing up, ushered the subject of our conversation
into the room. He held his hat in his hand, and had under his arm a couple of account books.

'This is Joseph the First,' said the lad, taking the black by the coat-tail, and bowing gravely
to me.

'And you are Joseph the Second, eh?' I said, laughing.

'Yas, sar, he'm dat 'stinguished gemman,' replied the negro, stroking affectionately the lad's
head; 'and he don't dishonor de name, sar. He'm de true blue, dyed in de wool.'

'He was named for Joseph,' said the lady, smiling kindly on the black. 'Bring up a chair, Joseph.'

'Tank you, missus,' and the negro seated himself by the fire, between Preston and me.

'You have brought the documents, I see, Joe; let me look at them,' I said, reaching out my
hand for the books.

'Yas, sar, and dey'm all written up till a week back. I reckon you kin pick 'em out, Mr. Kirke,
dough master Robert he say he don't understand my way ob keepin' 'em.'

I opened the books, and any man of business will appreciate my surprise to find them kept by
'double entry.' Cotton, corn, and turpentine had each its separate account, and at a glance
I could see how much had been made or lost by the production of each staple. The handwriting
was plain and bold, and the general appearance of the ledger compared favorably with that of
a much larger one I knew of, which was the pride of an experienced bookkeeper.

'Why, Joe, I'm astonished,' I exclaimed with unaffected gratification; 'you write like a schoolmaster.'

A flush, which would have been a blush on a lighter skin, overspread the negro's face, as he
replied:

'I don't hab practice 'nuff, Mr. Kirke, to write bery well.'

'Practice!' said Preston, 'he has constant practice; he writes the love letters of all the
darkies in the district.'

'It am so, dat's a fac, sar', said Joe, a quiet humor twinkling in his eye. 'One ob Cunnel
Dawsey's folk came to me tother day--his wife had been sold down Souf, an' he wanted to say
to har, dat dough ribers rose, and mountins run atween 'em, he'd neber hab nuffin to do wid
no oder 'ooman--so he come to me, and I wrote de letter; an' when I'd a put in all de ribers,
an' de mountins, an' eber so many runs, an' thought I'd done it right smart, I read it ober
to him, but he say he sort o' reckoned it warnt quite done up 'pletely, not 'xactly 'cluded;
an' he 'sisted dat I muss 'sert a pose scrip, axin' her to ''scuse de bad writin'.''

'And you did it?'

'Yes, sar, I done it.'

'Well, Joe, the important thing just now, is how much you owe. Give me a slip of paper, and
let me put these balances together.'

'I'se done dat, Mr. Kirke; here dey am,' and he handed me a correctly drawn-up statement, showing
Preston's exact liabilities. I glanced over it, compared it with the footings in the ledger,
and said:

'I see by this, Preston, that you owe seventeen hundred dollars, floating debt; twelve hundred
dollars, interest on your mortgage, and are overdrawn five hundred dollars on our house.'

'Yes, so Joe makes it, and I reckon he's correct.'

'But dar'm de six hunderd you 'cepted fur master Robert, de oder day, in Newbern--dat ain't
counted in,' said Joe.

'Well, all told, it's four thousand, besides the note I have given for Phyllis. What do you
calculate on to pay it, Preston?'

'I don't know. How can we pay it, Joe?'

'We moight sell de two stills, and some ob de hosses; I reckon dey'd be 'nuff,' replied the
black; 'but de raal trubble, master Robert, am what's cummin'; we'm gwine ahind ebery day,
'case we lose money on ebery crop ob turpentine. Nuffin pay now but de corn and de cotton,
and we don't raise 'nuff ob dem to do no good.'

I turned to the ledger, and found that it showed what the black said to be true--corn and cotton
had made a handsome profit, but turpentine had 'paid a loss.'

'That is because your trees are old, and now yield scarcely anything but scrape,'[1] I said.

'Yas, sar, and 'case dey am so thin like, sense we cleaned out de pore ones, dat it take a
hand long time to git 'round 'mong 'em.'

'Why not drop turpentine, and cut shingles from the swamp? You've a fortune in those cypress
trees.'

'My negroes are not accustomed to swamp work--it would kill them,' replied Preston.

'Mr. Kirke,' said Joe,--'you'll take no 'fence, master Robert, if I says dis?'

'No, go on,' said his master.

'De ting am right in a nutshell, an' jess so clar as apple jack: we owes a heap; we'se gittin'
inter debt deeper an' deeper ebery yar; we lose money workin' de ole trees; we hain't got no
new ones; an', dar's no use to talk,--master Robert won't put de hands inter de swamp. What,
den, shill we do?'

Avoiding the darky's question, I said: 'I never before understood why slavery is so clamorous
for new fields. I see now--it can draw support only from the virgin soil. It exhausts an old
country: like the locusts of Egypt, it blasts the very face of the earth!'

'That is true,' replied Preston; 'but Joe has stated the case correctly, What shall we do?'

'One of two things. Sell your plantation and negroes, or take your hands to a new section,
where you can raise virgin turpentine.'[2]

'I cannot sell my negroes--they were all raised with me; and the plantation--it was my ancestors',
over a hundred years ago. I would move the hands to a new section, but I have not the means
to buy land.'

'Ay, dar's de rub, as Shakspeare say,' said Joe, with a pleasant humor, intended, I thought,
to cheer his master, whose face was clouding over with grave thought; 'dat's de ting dat spile
de 'gestion ob de king; and in him sleep, such dreams do come ob suffin' better'n dis, some
undiscobered country, whar de virgin trees weep tears so white as crystal, and turn to gole
de moment dey'm barrled up, dat--'

'Come, Joe, that'll do,' said his master, laughing; 'don't give us any more, or you'll murder
us, as well as Shakspeare.'

'You don't 'preciate dat great man, master Robert,' rejoined Joe, also laughing.

'No, I don't--not just now.'

'If you could satisfy your outside creditors that things were likely to go better with you
in future, could you put off the payment of the three thousand dollars for a time?' I asked.

'I reckon I could--nearly all of it,' replied Preston.

'Well, then, I'll make you a proposition. Buy ten thousand acres on the line of the Manchester
railroad. It is finished to Whitesville, and you can buy land within twenty miles of that station,
at seventy-five cents an acre. We'll advance the twenty per cent. you'll have to pay down,
and five hundred dollars more to start you there, and hold the deed of the land to secure us.
Ship your produce to us, and agree to forfeit the land, if, at the end of three years, you
have not paid all the original advance. Move your stills, and your able-bodied men and women
there, leaving the old and the young negroes here to raise corn and cotton. Hire fifty more
prime hands, and put Joe over the whole, with unlimited power to work them to death if he pleases.'

Preston leaned his head on his hand, as if bewildered. He seemed not to understand me, but
Joe's face lighted as if a stream of electricity were playing under his dark skin. Mrs. Preston
was the first to speak. Rising and taking my hand, she said: 'Robert will do it, Mr. Kirke;
and how can we ever thank you enough for your generous--your noble conduct toward us? You have
taken a weary load off our hearts.'

'It is a simple business transaction, madam; I expect to make money by it. I insist on your
husband's consigning his produce to us, and I shall require the forfeit of the land and the
improvements, if he does not pay our advances within three years.'

'We kin pay 'em in one year, an' you knows it, sar!' exclaimed Joe, springing to his feet,
and almost dancing around the room. 'Come, master Robert, look up, an' tell 'im we'll do it,
for ole Joe'll make de chips fly as you neber seed 'em fly afore.'

Preston looked up, and a tear rolled down his face, as he said, 'I thank you, my friend. I
need not say more.'

'You need not say that; only buy the land, and make Joe autocrat of the new plantation, and
your bacon is cured.'

'Joe'll show you how bacon am cured, Mr. Kirke, an' he'll name his fuss boy af'er you--shore!'
shouted the black, grinning all over.

'He can safely promise that,' said the lady, laughing through her tears; 'for Aggy is fifty,
and never had a child.'

A half-hour's conversation over the details of the proposed arrangement followed; then Joe
rose, and taking the account books under his arm, bade us 'good evenin'.' As he was leaving
the room, I asked, 'Do you preach to-morrow?'

'Yas, sar, an' I'se gwine home to study ober de sermon. You'll come dar, sar? You won't har
no raal preachin', 'less master Robert feel de sperrit move, fur de Lord don't gib de black
man de tongue he gib de white.'

'I'm not sure of that; but I'll be there. Good night.'

'Good night, sar, an' de Lord bless you.'

When he had gone, I said to Preston: 'You have admitted me to your confidence, my friend, and
asked my advice; therefore, I think you will pardon me, if I make you a few business suggestions.'

'Most certainly, and I shall be guided by what you say.'

'With a hundred hands in those thick woods, Joe will turn out a vast amount of produce. His
ambition is excited with the idea of being his own master, and he will coin money for you;
but you need to be prudent. You owe a mortgage of twenty thousand dollars--and mortgage debts
are the worst in the world. Your plantation and negroes may be worth three times the amount,
but they are in jeopardy so long as it exists. If it were called in on you suddenly, you couldn't
pay it--your property would be sacrificed--everything might be lost. Now, I would suggest that
you sell, at once, your three hundred acres of swamp land, all your surplus live stock and
materials, and appropriate the proceeds to paying your floating debt, and reducing the mortgage.'

'And we might reduce our family expenses, Robert,' said his wife; 'we have too many house-servants.
We could hire out five or six of them in Newbern. And Joseph's schooling costs us five hundred
dollars a year; he might come home--I could teach him.'

'You would take too much on yourself, Lucy,' replied her husband. 'You are not strong, and
you can't spare a single servant.'

'How many have you?' I asked.

'Nine,' said Preston.

'For a family of two adults and three children?'

'It strikes you as too many, Mr. Kirke,' said the lady, 'and it is. It is our Southern way;
but every additional servant makes additional work for the mistress.'

'I think you are right, madam,' I replied; 'a Northern lady that you know of, takes care of
me, Frank, the two young children, and a large house, with only two servants and an errand
boy; and she never has anything to do after two o'clock in the day.'

'But you have the Irish; they are better house-servants than our blacks; and you can discharge
them if they won't work,' said Preston.

'I would rather have Phyllis than any servant I ever saw at the North. With her, the cook,
and one more, I will promise to get on beautifully,' remarked his wife.

Preston gave her a look of indescribable tenderness and affection. What the negro trader had
said to me, gave me a key to the thoughts that were passing in his mind. His wife's trust in
him was so great, that she was willing to again admit into her family the woman who had made
him forget, through long years, the promises he made her in their youth! Truly, the angel of
perfect love and forgiveness makes its earthly home in the breast of woman.

Preston's voice quivered as he replied: 'I--I appreciate what you say--Lucy. Do as you think best.'

'But, madam,' I said, 'I think you are really taking too much on yourself--the care of the
children will be a great tax on your strength. Would it not be better to employ a governess
to instruct them? What is now expended on Joe would pay a competent person.'

'What do you say to that, Joe?' asked his father; 'would you like to come home, and have a
woman teacher?'

'I'd like to do what mother wants me to,' said the lad, putting his arms about her neck, and
kissing her.

'You're a good boy, Joseph,' said his mother.

'But, you'll let me keep the pony, won't you, father?' said the lad.

'Yes, my son, and if you learn well, you shall go with uncle James when you're fifteen.'

Shortly afterward we separated for the night.

CHAPTER XI.

On a gentle knoll, a few hundred yards from the negro quarters, and in the midst of a grove
of pines, whose soft brown tassels covered the ground all around it, stood the negro meetinghouse.
It was built of unhewn logs, its crevices chinked with clay, and was large enough to seat about
two hundred persons. Though its exterior resembled a backwoods barn, its interior had a neat
and tasteful appearance. Evergreen boughs hid its rough beams and bare shingled roof, and long
wreaths of pine leaves hung in graceful festoons from its naked walls and narrow windows. On
the two sides of a wide aisle, which served to separate the sheep on the right hand from the
goats on the left, were long rows of benches, with hard board bottoms, and rough open backs,
and beyond them, divided from the rest of the interior by a rustic railing, was the 'family
pew,' an enclosure about twelve feet square, neatly carpeted, and furnished with half a dozen
arm chairs. Opposite to this was a platform elevated three steps from the floor, and on it
stood a rustic settee, a large easy chair, and a modest desk covered with green baize, and
decorated with small sprigs of evergreen. On this desk rested a large Bible.

The enormous seashell which served as a bell to this 'house of prayer,' was sending its last
blast in long echoes through the old trees, when, with Mrs. Preston and the children, I elbowed
an opening through the thick group of grinning Africans that blocked the doorway, and 'worked
a passage' down the crowded aisle to the family enclosure. Seating myself in one of its cane-bottomed
seats, I glanced around on the assemblage. Such a gathering of woolly heads I had never seen.
Every plantation within a circuit of five miles had sent in a representation, till the benches,
the aisle, the small area around the pulpit, and the open space near the doorway, were all
densely packed. On the left, the men, in gaudy cravats and many-colored waistcoats, were chatting
merrily together, and enjoying themselves as heartily as a parcel of Yankees at a clambake;
and on the right, the women, in red and yellow turbans, and flaming shawls and neckerchiefs,
were bobbing about and flaunting their colors, like so many dolphins sporting in the sunshine.
Preston was seated in the lone chair at the back of the pulpit, and Boss Joe and Black Jack
occupied the settee near him. The latter shortly rose to open the services, and, in a moment,
a deep silence fell on the noisy multitude. The old preacher had carefully combed his thin
wool into a pyramid on the top of his head, and he looked, dressed in glossy black pants, longtailed
blue coat, ruffled shirt, and high shirt collar, like a stuffed specimen at an exhibition of
wax figures. Stepping rather unsteadily to the front of the platform, he flourished his red
cotton bandanna, and spreading his huge claws over the large Bible, said:

'Dear bred'rin, leff us begin de worship ob de Lord by singin':

   'From all dat dwell below de skies
   Leff de Creator's praise arise.''

A half dozen darky fiddlers at the left of the pulpit tuned their strings, and then the whole
assemblage rose and burst into that grand old hymn. As its last echoes were dying away, Joe
got up, and opening the large Bible, read, in a clear, mellow voice, a portion of the one hundred
and nineteenth Psalm. When he had concluded, the old darky again came forward.

Gazing complacently around on the audience for a moment, he drawled out: 'My bred'rin, leff
us raise our hearts to de Lord.' The whole congregation then kneeled, and Jack, closing his
eyes, clenching his hands together, and throwing his head back, until his nose came nearly
on a line with the roof of the building, 'lifted up his voice' and prayed.

After the fashion of very many white preachers, he began by telling the Lord all about Himself;
all He had ever done, and all He is going to do; how long He had lived, and how long He is
going to live; how great He is--'taller dan de mountin's, and bigger dan de seas.' How He made
the world in six days, and then, 'gittin' tired, rested on de sevenfh;' How He formed man out
of the dust of the ground, and then out of his rib formed woman; how the woman tempted the
man, and he fell, and how woman has 'raised Cain' on the earth ever since. How He sent the
flood, and how Noah builded the ark; how Noah axed all the wild 'critters' into it, and how
they all came in two by two, and how Noah and the wild beasts lay down lovingly together, till
the 'wet spell' was over. How He chose the Jews--a meaner race than the 'pore whites'--to be
his peculiar people; and how that proves His boundless love and unlimited goodness; 'fur no
oder man in all creashun would hab taken dem folks up, no how.' How Moses, when he came down
from the Mount, 'stumbled and broke de law; and how 'ebery one of us dat hab come inter de
worle sense, hab stumbled and broke de law, 'case he did,' How Noah, though he was a white
man, and had a white wife, begat a black son; and how that black son was a great sinner, and
how all his descendants have taken after him, and been mighty big sinners ever since.

Then he described the sinners, particularly the black sinners present; and if half of what
he said was true, every one of them deserved to be sold 'down Soufh,' and kept on cold hominy
and hoecake all the rest of his days.

The prayer was a strange mixture of absurdity, presumption, and profanity, and I felt relieved
to hear his long 'amen,' and to see Joe rise and again approach the pulpit.

Requesting some one present to raise a few of the windows (I took occasion, afterward, to thank
him for that very considerate thought), Joe opened the Bible, and said: 'My friends, I am gwine
to talk ter you from de tex, 'An' dey drew an' lifted up Joseph out ob de pit, an' sold Joseph
to the Ishmaelites fur twenty pieces ob silver, an' dey brought Joseph inter Egypt.'

'You all knows,' he continued, 'de story ob Joseph an' his bred'rin; how dey wus raised up
by dar fader Jacob in a wile country, whar dar warn't no schools, an' no 'telligence, an' no
larnin'; and how his fader lub'd Joseph more dan all ob his bred'rin, an' make fur him a coat
ob many colors. But p'raps you don't know dat de Lord lub Joseph a great sight better'n his
fader did, an' 'case He lub him so, dat He hardened de hearts ob his bred'rin agin him, till
dey sole him to de Ishmaelites--de slavetraders ob dem days, to be taken down inter Egypt.
An' p'raps you don't know dat Egypt wus a great country, whar dar wus schools, an' churches,
an' great libraries ob books, an' all manner ob sciences; an' dat Joseph wus made de lord ob
all dat country, an' dat finarly he got his fader, an' his bred'rin, an' dar wifes, an' all
dar little ones, to come down dar, an' stay; whar, dough de tasks war sometimes hard, an' dey
hed to 'arn dar bred by de sweat ob dar brow, dey could git knowledge an' larnin'. An' p'raps,
too, you don't know dat de chil'ren ob Israel, who war de chil'ren ob Joseph an' his bred'rin,
when dey'd staid down dar in Egypt de 'pointed time, war taken by de Lord inter de lan' ob
Canaan, which was a lan' 'flowin' wid milk and honey;' and dat dey war gib'n dat lan' far dar
possession. Now, my friends,' and he paused and looked around on the congregation, 'de story
ob Joseph am de story ob de brack man; he hab been taken out ob de pit; he hab been sole fur
twenty pieces ob silver; he hab been brought inter Egypt, an', bless de Lord, he am bound fur
de lan' ob Canaan.

'He hab been taken out ob de pit. A pit, my friends, am a dark place, whar de sun neber shine,
an' de light neber come; an' Africa, de country whar our faders an' our gran'faders come from--am
a pit; fur de darkness cobers dat lan', an' gross darkness de people dareof. Dey hab no cloes--dey
lib in cabins made ob clay, an' in holes in de groun'--dey kill an' eat one anoder, an' dey'm
allers at war wid one anoder. But de white man he gwoe dar, an' he buy 'em fur twenty pieces
ob silver--dat's' zactly de price--twenty silver dollars--dey pay dat fur 'em up ter dis day--dem
pore, ign'rant folks won't take nuffin' but silver. Well, de white man buy 'em, and he fotch
'em to dis country, which am like de lan' ob Egypt, full ob schools, ob churches, ob larnin,'
an' ob all manner ob good tings. Shore, we hab to wuck hard har; some ob us hab to bear heaby
burdens, an' to make bricks w'en dey gib us no straw to make 'em wid; but we am in de lan'
ob Egypt, whar we hab knowledge ob de Lord; whar de gospil am preach to us, an' whar we kin
fine out de rode to de lan' ob Canaan. (To be shore, we karn't all larn out ob de books; but
book larnin' neber make a man, no how.) Yas, my friends, yere we kin fine out de road to de
lan' ob Canaan; an' do ye know what dat lan' ob Canaan, dat'm waitin' fur de brack man, am?
Do ye 'spose it am a lan' whar de days am hot, an' de nights am cole; whar we'll hoe de cotton,
an' gader de turpentine, an' cut de shingles in de swamp? whar we'll wuck till we drop down;
whar we'll hunger an' furst? whar de fever will burn in our veins, an' de nager will rattle
our bones as de corn am rattled in de hopper? No, my friends, 'tain't no lan' like dat! It
am de habitation on high, de city builded ob de Lord, de eberlasting kingdom founded by de
Eternal God, who made heaben an' 'arth, de sea, an' all dat in dem is! Oh, tink ob dat, my
friends, an' hab courage! Tink ob dat when you'm a faint an' a weary, an' leff you' hearts
be glad, an' you' souls rejoice in hope. Fur dat lan' ain't 'spressly fur de white man--it
am fur de brack man, too; an' ebery one ob us, eben de brackest, kin git to it ef we'll jess
foller der road--ef we'll jess do our duty, bear meekly our burdens, an' lean humbly on de
arm ob de Lord. I knows it am so, my friends. I knows it am so, fur de oder night, when de
deep sleep fell upon me, I dreamed a dream. I fought dar come to my cabin, an' stood aside
ob my bed, a great white angel, wid feet dat touch de 'arth, but wid head dat reach unto de
heabens. He wore raiment shinin' like silver, an' on his head wus a girdle ob stars. His face
wus dazzlin' as de sun, an' his eyes war like flamin' fire. He look at me, an' he say: 'Joseph,
come up hither!' He reach out his hand an' he lift me up--above de 'arth--above de clouds--above
de stars--'way up to de high heabens, whar am de sperrits ob just men made perfect, who hab
been redeemed from among men, who hab gone fru great tribulation, whose garments hab been washed
clean in de blood ob de Lamb! 'Dis,' he say, 'am de city ob de livin' God, de heabenly Jerusalem,
whose foundations am saffomires, whose walls am silver, whose streets am gold, whose houses
am jewels an' all precious stones! Here de sun neber sets. Here de storm an' de hurricane neber
come, an' here, Joseph, am a dwellin' prepared fur you--'here, ef you'm faithful an' 'bedient,
you shill come when you' wuck on de 'arth am ober!'

The speaker had been gradually warming with his subject till he uttered this last sentence,
when his voice trembled, his face glowed, and his upturned eye seemed gazing on the ineffable
glories of the land he was describing. A stillness like that of death fell on the assemblage,
and the simple blacks, hanging breathlessly on his words, looked up to where Joe's hand was
pointing, as if they too had caught the vision on which his eyes were feasting. In a moment,
he continued:

'I looked round, an' I saw dat beautiful city; I breafed its air; I walked its streets; I hard
its music--de neber endin' song which its countless people send up to de throne ob de Great
Father; an' I say to de angel: 'Do brack folks lib yere? Kin dey come to dis beautiful country?'
an' he say: You shill see.' Den he lead me fru dose shinin' streets, out inter de open fiel's
whar war pleasant pastures, greener dan any on de 'arth, an' still waters, dat sparkle in de
sun, jess like missus' diamonds in de light ob de fire.' (I did not know that Mrs. Preston
wore diamonds--she certainly had not worn them in my presence.) 'He lead me out till we come
to a great woods, whar fount'ins war playin', an' birds war singin', an' flowers war growin',
an' de air wus full of fragrance; an' dar I seed a great crowd ob people gadered togeder, a
listenin' to one dat wus a talkin' to 'em. Dar wus Ab'ram, an' Isaac, an' Jacob,--dar wus Moses,
an' Joseph, au' Samuel--dar wus David, an' Solomon, an' de prophets--dar wus Paul, an' John,
an' Peter,--dar wus 'most all de great an' good men who hab libed in de worle; an' dar too,
right aside ob de one dat wus speakin', wus de blessed Saviour, wid de woun' in his side, an'
de print ob de nails in his hands. An' who do you tink wus a talkin' dar, to all dem great
people? Who do you tink wus fought good 'nuff to stan' by de side ob de blessed Saviour? It
wus a brack man! It wus a brack man, who, down yere had been ole, an' lame, an' blind, an'
ob no account--so no account he wouldn't sell fur nuffin'. He wus tellin' dem great folks ob
de great lub ob de Lord to him, an' dar tears rolled down as dey hard him. He tole 'em how
he use to lib in Car'lina--how he wus a slave; how he'd 'most nuffin' to eat; how he wus wucked
in de swamp; how, 'fore de sun rose, an' 'way inter de night, he use to stan' in de mud an'
de water, till his bones war sore, his heart wus weary, his soul wus faint. How his massa flog
him, 'cause he couldn't wuck no more, till de blood run down his back, an' it wus a ridged
like de ploughed groun'. How his wife wus whipped to death afore his bery eyes; how his chil'ren--all
'cept one--war sole 'way from him; how dat one 'bused him, an' flogged him, an' tormented him,
till he wus jess ready to die. How, when his hair wus white, his body wus bent, his strength
wus gone, an' he was ole, an' lame, an' blind, his massa drove him 'way, and make him shirk
fur himseff. How he beg in de roads; how he sleep in de woods; in de cole an' de rain, till
a good gemman take him in, gib him a bed, tend to his wants, an' pray ober him when he die.
He tole 'em all dat; but he say dat fru it all, he hab peace; fru it all, de Lord wus good
to him; fru it all, he felt His lub in his heart; fru it all, de blessed Redeemer wus wid him;
fru it all, he knowed dat mercy an' salvation am in de heabens! An' DEY AM DAR! Dey took him
'way, 'way from de 'arth; 'way from his suffrin's an' his sorrers down yere, to joy, an' peace,
an' rest up dar. Up dar, whar all great an' good men call him brudder--whar de Lord Jehobah
call him son, an' whar de blessed Saviour will leff him stan' at his right hand, foreber and
eber. An' he, my friends, wus a BRACK MAN! An' who do you 'spose he wus? Who do you 'spose he wus?'

He paused for a moment as he repeated the question, and then, in a slow, impressive manner,
continued:

'It wus ole Cale--Cunnel Dawsey's Cale; an' dat good gemman dat take him in and pray ober him
when he die--wus my master--yas, bless de Lord, he wus MY master!'

As Joe uttered these last words, Preston bowed his head, his wife sobbed aloud, and the black
people gave out a low cry, as sad as the wail which their own mourners breathe over the dead.
Fixing his eyes on a tall, stalwart negro in the audience, the preacher continued:

'An' he wus you' fader, Jake! You fader, who, when he wus down yere, you 'bused, an' persecuted,
an' treated like a dog, but who up dar am fought worthy to stand at de Saviour's right hand!
I knows it wus him, fur I seed him, I talked wid him, an' he gabe me suffin' to tell you. Stand
up now, an' yere what he hab to say.'

The black man's face assumed a dogged expression; he moved uneasily on his seat, but showed
no inclination to rise. In a firm, imperious tone, Joe again called out to him:

'Stand up, I say! Folks like you' fader am now, don't talk to sech as you when dey'm sittin'
down: stand up, or I'll gib you what Cunnel Dawsey neber gabe you in all you' life.'

The negro reluctantly rose. Every eye was fixed upon him as Joe continued:

'He ax me to say to you, Jake, dat he lubs you--lubs you bery much--dat he fully an' freely
furgibs you fur all de wrong you eber done him; fur all de tears an' de sorrer you eber cause
him. And he say to me: 'Tell Jake dat I'se been down dar an' seed him. I'se seed how he shirk
his wuck; how he 'buse his wife an' chil'ren; how he hate his massa, an' mean to kill him--(dough
his massa am hard on him, 'tain't no 'scuse fur dat). How he swar, an' lie, an' steal, an'
teach all de oder brack folks to do de same. How he'm no fought ob his soul; no fought ob dyin';
no fought ob whar he'm gwine when de Lord's patience am clean worn out wid him. Tell him dat
ef he gwo on dis way, he'll neber see his ole fader no more; neber see his ole mudder, an'
his little brudders, who am up yere, too, no more; neber come to dis fine country, but be shet
out inter outer darkness, whar am weepin' an' wailin' an' knashin' ob teeth. Oh! tell him dis,
an 'treat him, by all his fader's keer fur him when he wus a chile; by all his lub fur him
now; by all de goodness ob de Lord, who hab borne wid him fru all dese long years, to turn
round--to turn round, NOW, an' sot his face towards dis blessed country, whar he kin hab joy
foreber! Tell him, too, dat ef he'll do dis, dat his ole fader'll leab his happy home an' come
down dar an' holp him; holp him at his wuck; holp him to bar ebery load; gib him strength when
he'm weak; hole up his feet when he'm weary; watch ober him day and night, all de time, till
he'm ready to come up yere, an' lib wid de Saviour foreber! Tell him--'

Joe paused, for a wild cry echoed through the building, and the negro fell in strong convulsions
to the floor.

A scene of indescribable excitement and confusion followed, during which the black was carried
out, and, more dead than alive, laid upon the ground. When quiet was somewhat restored, Preston
made a short and feeling prayer, and then, after giving out a hymn, he dismissed the congregation
with the usual benediction.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: 'Scrape' is the turpentine gathered from the face of the pine. On old trees, the
yearly incision is made high above the boxes, and the sap, in flowing down, passes over and
adheres to the previously scarified surface. It is thus exposed to the sun, which evaporates
the more volatile and valuable portion, and leaves only the hard, which, when manufactured,
is mostly rosin. 'Scrape' turpentine is only about half as valuable as 'dip.']

[Footnote 2: "Virgin" Turpentine is twice as valuable as "Dip."]

THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE REBELLION.

II.

The sturdy oak which is not prostrated by the storm that assails it is made thereby to take
deeper hold, and to draw the sustenance for a larger growth from the torn and loosened soil
into which it has opportunity to thrust new roots and tendrils. Reinvigorated by the resisted
violence, its branches shoot upward to the skies and extend themselves laterally with majestic
breadth. It gradually gains strength and becomes so firmly rooted in its place that it bids
defiance to the repeated tempests vainly striving to overthrow it, and stands for centuries,
sublime in its unconquerable might and proud endurance. Our noble Union, fiercely assailed
in its early maturity, before its strength has been fully developed, now bends before the hurricane
of civil war, swaying to and fro with fearful and threatening movements at every paroxysm of
the tremendous blast. We look on with intense agony of suspense, to see whether it will stand
the terrible ordeal, and outlive the unexampled convulsion of social elements in which its
strength and endurance have been so sorely tested. Instinctively we know that if it survive
the present momentous crisis, successfully resisting the attack of the enemy which assails
it so furiously, its foundations will be immensely strengthened, and its power of resistance
in future dangers will be indefinitely augmented. Prolonged and permanent existence, with assured
security and repose, will be the best and most indisputable result of its triumph. Though shaken
and torn by the deadly assault, and to a certain extent deprived of its usual resources, in
the very effort of resistance it will have put forth new connections, which returning peace
will multiply and strengthen. The immense demand on its energy and enterprise will have aroused
all its slumbering capacities and stimulated them to the highest point of exertion. Under the
necessity of self-preservation, the nation will have been fully awakened to a sense of its
gigantic power, which, when employed in the benign pursuits of peace, will be sufficient speedily
to restore its prosperity to even more than former splendor. The resources of our broad domain
are so unbounded, and the courage and persistence of our people so indomitable, that even the
sacrifices and losses of so great a war will make no serious impression on the destined career
of this youthful and growing nation. So long as the vigor and elasticity of the popular force
is not absolutely overpowered and suppressed, the reaction will only be so much the stronger
for all the mighty pressure which has been placed upon it. Returning strength, so invigorated
and redoubled by repose, will enable the people to bear the burden patiently, and within a
comparatively brief period to throw it off entirely; and then they will bound forward with
renewed energy in that race of unexampled progress which has been sadly interrupted, but not
by any means wholly arrested.

If peace had continued, and especially if no civil war had occurred to desolate our country,
the labors of the population would have been directed chiefly to the increase of wealth, and
to the improvement which always accompanies material prosperity. It would be a monstrous error
to say that the interruption of these occupations has not been a calamity of the most serious
character. Yet is it not altogether unmixed with good. Indeed, it is by no means certain that,
in the circumstances which gave rise to the war, there was not an actual necessity, of a moral
nature, which made it on the whole advantageous to arouse the nation to this gigantic strife,
and thus to exchange its ordinary struggle for wealth into a combat for a momentous principle.
Is it questionable whether, in every case, the establishment of such a principle is not the
most important of all objects, and whether every other pursuit and occupation ought not to
be made secondary to it? In the sacrifices and sufferings which a nation undergoes for the
sake of asserting an important moral or political truth, there is always a wholesome virtue
that in some measure redeems the brutality and violence which are the inseparable accompaniments
of all wars, and which peculiarly characterize the history of civil wars, in every age and
country. Men have often fought and willingly died in the cause of their country, regardless
of the merits of the controversy between the opposing parties. There is a certain manliness
and devotion to others in this species of patriotism, which commands respect and admiration;
and this feeling of approbation rises still higher when the cause of the nation is undeniably
just, and the self-sacrificing patriot is giving his life for the purchase of liberty to his
country. But the highest and noblest of all exhibitions is that in which the sacrifice is made
for the good of the race--for principles in which all men are alike interested, and in which
the martyr can claim no peculiar advantage to himself or to his own branch of the human family.
The nation which accepts war for such a cause, and wages it with all her means and energies,
exhibits a moral grandeur which, in spite of misfortune, has a saving power, capable of overcoming
and compensating all calamities, of whatever nature and extent. That nation cannot be overthrown--not
unless the laws of the Most High himself can be subverted, and the right be made permanently
to succumb to the wrong. Let it be understood, however, that this assertion is made only with
reference to wars which are essentially defensive; for no nation has the right to propagate
even the best and noblest principles by the power of the sword. In our case, it is true, other
motives concur in moving the nation to this tremendous struggle. Not merely the rights and
interests of an inferior, degraded, and suffering race appeal to our humanity; but the unity
and greatness of our country, its influence abroad, and its success and prosperity at home,
are all involved. It is one of many instances in which the best and highest impulses of our
nature are reënforced by the dictates of the noblest and most elevated of human interests--the
interests of a nation, of a continent, yea, of the world itself; for our gates are still open
to the ingress of our brothers from abroad, and our immense and fertile domain, as well as
our priceless institutions, are freely offered to their participation.

But, aside from the principles involved in the war, there are results of an interesting character
springing from it, which are well worthy the attention of the statesman and the patriot. Two
very opposite effects are produced on the minds of the men engaged in such a contest as this,
or, indeed, in any contest of arms whatever, when it assumes the proportions of a regular war.
The volunteering of our young men of all classes, in numbers so immense, is an extraordinary
phenomenon. These soldiers by choice, many of them educated and intelligent, and impelled by
deliberate considerations of principle, willingly undergo the hard labor of military training,
of marches and campaigns, and the still more trying inactivity of life in camps and fortresses,
in new and unfriendly regions and climates. They fearlessly face death in every ghastly form,
on the battle field, by exposure in all seasons, by physical exhaustion, and by the most dreadful
contagious diseases. They devote themselves unreservedly to the great cause, and in doing so
exhibit the noblest spirit of self-sacrifice, and that on the grandest scale presented in history.
Fortitude and courage, contempt of the most appalling dangers, disregard of suffering and privation,
wounds, mutilation, and lingering death--these are the habits of soul which our citizen soldiers
cultivate, and which tend to strengthen and harden the character, and to give it great moral
force. The great qualities thus nurtured in the bosom of the multitudes destined soon to return
to peaceful life will assuredly make a powerful impression on the whole society, which must
be thoroughly pervaded with the manly virtues thence destined to be infused into it. Every
man who has been conspicuous for his soldierly conduct and for the faithful performance of
duty will be an object of general respect, though he may have passed unscathed through the
fiery ordeal; while every maimed and wounded citizen will be regarded as bearing on his person,
in his honorable scars and deficient limbs, the decorations which exalt and ennoble him in
the eyes of his countrymen. Many a chivalrous deed will be recounted with pride and satisfaction,
and handed down to immortality by the pen of history and poetry, and by the pencil and chisel
of art. Even the undistinguished services of those who have fought in the war for the Union,
and who have passed unchallenged through the fiery ordeal, will be cherished by their children,
and transmitted to their remoter posterity with patriotic pride and pardonable self-satisfaction.
Thus the glory of noble deeds in this memorable war will everywhere shed its lustre on the
national character, and will tend to stimulate the loftiest virtues in the present and succeeding
generations.

But, on the other hand, the unavoidable dissipation of military life, the vices of the camp,
the brutality and want of moral sensibility engendered by the necessity of slaughter and the
horrible ravages of war, will tend largely to counteract the good results already noted. Those
who may be nobly disdainful of their own sufferings, will sometimes be even more regardless
of the sufferings of others; and perhaps sometimes, with the natural perversion of human passion
effected by civil war, will seek to avenge their own misfortunes by ungenerous rigor and cruelty
toward all within their power, suspected of favoring the enemy only in thought or sentiment.
Even this imperfect discrimination is too often altogether omitted, and innocent loyalty is
made to suffer losses and severities which ought never to be visited on non-combatants, even
though they be of the enemy. The fearful disregard of human life, and of the accumulations
of human labor in the shape of property, which marks the movements of our armies in almost
all quarters, and even distinguishes the conduct of some of our high officials, constitutes
one of the most serious evils which attend the contest, and which will leave their natural
consequences as a permanent injury to the nation. The record of these misdeeds, now disregarded
in the hurry and excitement of the conflict, will hereafter confront us with terrible effect.
The bad acts themselves will long continue to bear fruit after their kind, and to scatter the
seeds of vice over the land. Such drawbacks, however, accompany more or less all great military
operations, no matter how sacred the cause in which armies are engaged. Yet, we fear, no such
example of generous and unselfish devotion to a holy cause can be found in our present experience
as was exhibited by the French people in their violent and bloody revolution of 1789. The mercenary
spirit has largely infected the military as well as the civil agencies of our Government. But
a people struggling for great principles are compelled to use such instruments as may be at
its command; and if the material of armies and their connections in civil life be often of
a character to be degraded rather than elevated by the employments and experiences of war,
it is nevertheless certain that these bad effects do not always, perhaps not generally, outweigh
and overpower the good.

History does not present another example of large armies made up of such men as those who now
constitute the defenders of the Union. For intelligence and moral worth, they are unsurpassed
by the masses of any population in the civilized world, and certainly they are far superior
in all respects to those usually constituting the armies of other nations. To our shame and
regret, there are certainly some exceptions to this statement; but these are comparatively
few, and mostly confined to those who have not enjoyed the full advantage of our noble system
of universal education. In many instances, the best young men in the land have gone into the
army as privates; while in the rural districts and from the Western States, the very bone and
sinew of the population--the sober, steady, intelligent, industrious, and prosperous part of
the people--have taken up arms in the cause of the Union, from a deliberate approval of the
policy of the war on our part, and from the noblest and most unselfish motives of patriotism.
The preponderance of such men in our armies evidently makes them, on the whole, susceptible
to the good, rather than to the bad influences of war. Reflection, self-respect, rational views
of the causes and objects of the war, and elevated motives of action, cannot fail to bring
those who possess these qualities all the benefits of self-denial, of patriotic labor willingly
expended, and of sacrifices made and sufferings endured in a good and noble cause. The mental
cultivation and moral training of the American citizen constitute a shield, from whose solid
and polished surface the missiles of temptation, which easily penetrate other defences, usually
glance or rebound with harmless effect. The carnage of the battle field, the bombardment and
capture of cities, and the ravages of armies, marching or in camp, which too often harden the
hearts and blunt the sensibilities of the ordinary soldier, have no such effect, or, at least,
a much less effect, in this particular, on the minds of humane and educated men. Hence we may
fairly anticipate that the influence of this war on the men who compose the army, and who must
sooner or later return to the occupations they have temporarily left, will be of a far better
character than that of any war ever hitherto waged in any part of the world. No such conditions
have ever heretofore existed in reference to any great national contest. Our immense volunteer
army, so largely composed of intelligent and respectable men--men who are fully capable, and
entitled by their votes, to influence the great measures of war or peace--presents a spectacle
new and wholly unexampled in history; and the consequences of our contest to the moral and
social condition of the people will be correspondingly unusual and important. We may safely
assume from these considerations that the good will preponderate over the bad.

There is, however, another species of influence of a more questionable character, which is
worthy of consideration in any attempt to anticipate the consequences of this extraordinary
rebellion. The nature of our institutions renders them accessible to popular impulses at very
brief intervals of time; and it may well be expected, that, after the conclusion of the war,
especially if it be successful, a sentiment nearly universal will prevail in favor of the elevation
of the men who have been conspicuous in the military service. There will be a disposition to
reward the successful soldier with civic honors, and to place the conduct of the Government
in the hands of men who have exhibited only a capacity to lead and handle armies. The power
of the military men will in this way be prolonged. Doubtless, a great soldier may be expected
to show large executive abilities, and with proper experience may well be intrusted with the
management of the highest offices in our country. There are times and occasions, of which the
present is a most memorable instance, when the peculiar capacities of a great military leader
would be of infinite service to the cause of freedom and humanity, provided, at the same time,
he should possess undoubted integrity and patriotism, without any mixture of bad ambition.
A Washington, or a Jackson, in the Presidential chair at the commencement of this rebellion,
would have been of inestimable value to our country, outweighing the importance of mighty armies
and countless treasure; for the value both of men and money, in such emergencies, depends wholly
on the skill and wisdom with which they are used and directed. If God had vouchsafed us one
grand will to control the human tempest now raging around us, our noble country would have
been saved from many calamities and much disgrace, such as will require hard labor and heavy
sacrifices to overcome.

It is not, therefore, the probability that military men may frequently be elevated to high
office that need give any apprehension to the lover of his country. But it is the almost certain
prevalence of a blind and undistinguishing sentiment of caste, which will seek to control the
elections in favor of the soldier under all circumstances, whether fit or unfit for the position
sought. We are likely to have soldiers in all the executive offices, soldiers in the diplomatic
service, in the legislative halls, and even on the bench. The danger is that the popular enthusiasm
in favor of those who have served in the war will go to the extent of substituting gallantry
and good conduct in the field for those very different qualifications demanded in responsible
civil stations. A wound received, or a limb lost, will, in many instances, constitute a stronger
recommendation for political preferment than long experience, coupled with ability and high
character. This disposition to reward those who have faithfully served the country in time
of war is an amiable characteristic of the American people, and proves that, in this particular
at least, republics are not ungrateful. But it is clear, at the same time, that the public
gratitude, thus turned into political channels, may be productive of great evil, by lowering
the character of the men employed in performing public functions of importance. Already the
results of our elective system have become the subject of intense anxiety in the minds of reflecting
men. Notwithstanding the extensive provision made for the education of our people, of the universality
and efficiency of which we justly boast, an almost equal extension of the elective franchise
has not tended to improve the wisdom of the popular choice, or the character and qualifications
of the men selected in latter times to fill high public offices. So seriously is this truth
felt, that it is now a political problem of the first importance to devise some means by which
the frequent elections in our country may be made to work more certainly and uniformly to the
elevation of good and able men, who now too often shun rather than seek employment in the national
service. If this indispensable improvement cannot be accomplished, our institutions are in
danger of falling into contempt, as exhibiting no very great advance on the old modes of hereditary
designation of political functionaries. The party machinery of the present day, adapted chiefly
to the purpose of availability and the means of securing success at all hazards, is mostly
responsible for the degeneracy which unquestionably characterizes the public men of this day,
in comparison with those who in former times filled the same high stations. In view of these
facts, it may be that the military regime about to be ushered in as a consequence of the great
existing war, will of itself be an improvement, since it must be acknowledged there is some
merit in the devotion and sacrifices of those who fight the battles of the Union, while it
is notorious that corrupt political parties too frequently select and reward their leaders
without regard to merit at all.

It may be said that there is inconsistency and contradiction in the views presented, inasmuch
as the claim for remarkable intelligence and superiority in the rank and file of the army would
imply too much patriotism and self-sacrifice to admit of the consequences suggested. But we
must remember the immense numbers of our army, its large proportion to the whole population,
the esprit de corps so naturally engendered in such a body, and the powerful influence it may
wield by turning the scale in our inveterate and often nicely balanced partisan contests. We
must also take into consideration that well known principle of human nature, as old as government
itself, which seems to impel all men possessing irresponsible power to abuse it, and employ
it for their own selfish advantage. This is peculiarly the case with classes which gain ascendency,
as such, over the other parts of the community. Political parties in our country will surely
not fail to seek alliance with the citizen soldiers at the close of the war, and to secure
success by all the arts and devices which can be made available to that end. But let us hope
the good sense and patriotism of our young men, their moderation and self-control, will be
as conspicuous in future political campaigns, as in those more glorious ones which are yet
destined to overthrow our enemies and restore our inestimable Union to its former greatness.

But it is not our purpose to confine these remarks to the loyal States and the Union armies;
nor is it at all paradoxical to extend them to the region and the population controlled by
the rebel government. Every good citizen, having confidence in the supremacy of right and the
destiny of our country, anticipates the reunion of the States at the conclusion of the war.
The bulk of the Southern army must likewise return to society, and carry with it such influence
as it may derive from the peculiar character of its cause, the motives by which it is animated,
and the acts, good or bad, noble or mean, which it may perform. It cannot be denied that the
soldiers of the rebel army have exhibited the highest personal qualities, of daring courage,
skilful enterprise, patient endurance, and the most indomitable perseverance, under difficulties
apparently insuperable. Their cause is bad. The impartial judgment of mankind will pronounce
it so, when the passions of the hour shall have completely subsided. But the masses of the
Southern people evidently do not take this view of the war they are waging against the Government
which has so long protected them, and under which they have acquired all the strength they
are now ungratefully using to overthrow it. They have been artfully misled into the belief
that they are engaged in a war altogether defensive--that they are fighting pro aris et focis--in
short, that they have given themselves up to the holiest work which any people can ever be
called on to undertake. Doubtless, in frequent instances, and sometimes among considerable
populations, different sentiments prevail and have been entertained from the beginning. A glimmering
of the truth may occasionally dawn on the minds of those who went into the contest with entire
confidence in the justice of their cause. But on the whole it is vain to deny the sincerity
and the deep convictions of the Southern people. Nothing less than these could have sustained
them in the appalling difficulties of their position. No people ever conducted a more brilliant
and successful defensive war against the vast odds, on land and sea, with which they have had
to contend. Let us be sufficiently magnanimous to confess the truth, unpleasant though it be,
and acknowledge that they have hitherto outmanaged us in the general conduct of the war. They
have exhibited an earnestness and determination, a gallantry and devotion, worthy of the highest
purposes that ever call forth the energy of struggling nations. It is vain to say they are
compelled by a military despotism; for, however strong and arbitrary their government may be,
it evidently rests upon the support of the people, and it could never continue the present
contest against popular disaffection at home joined with the mighty invading armies of the Union.

What then are to be the results of great efforts and sacrifices in a cause which, though we
believe it to be bad, they consider holy? Are their chivalrous deeds to be less ennobling to
the character of Southern men, than similar ones, springing from like motives, on the part
of our armies? It is the motive which gives character to all actions, and mistake or error
of the most perverse kind, when arising from honest conviction, cannot alter the merit of what
is done or suffered. If it be said that the assumed convictions of the Southern people are
incredible, it is only necessary to look back a few centuries, in order to see the whole Christian
world entertaining sentiments equally abhorrent to the enlightened conscience of the present
day. The universal participation in the slave trade, and the horrible persecutions for religious
heresy, which everywhere prevailed, are sad evidences of the possibility of indulging the most
disastrous errors with perfect sincerity. Besides, if we consider how great a diversity of
opinion prevails among the people of the loyal States, on the subject of the rebellion and
its causes, it will require no great degree of credulity to induce the belief that the Southern
people are impelled by deep convictions in their present struggle.

Failure and defeat on their part will cast the usual discredit on the cause which is overthrown;
and in this case we do not entertain a doubt that ultimately the right will prevail, and that
the discomfiture and disgrace will fall where justice would require. Men will be deeply mortified
to find themselves utterly overcome, and all their brave deeds and their magnanimous sacrifices
and sufferings expended in a failing and a bad cause. It will be their great misfortune that
serious reflection and conviction should come to them only after these great events, and when
it is too late to recall them. But it is the peculiar characteristic of contests like this,
that they do eventually make clear the subjects of dispute in which they originate. All the
wranglings of politicians, and all the learning and logic of contending theologians in divided
churches, could never accomplish the speedy and thorough decision of contested questions which
will follow this tremendous war. Bold and extra-constitutional expedients necessarily grow
out of the prevailing violence. They will soon test the possibility of measures which are too
great for ordinary times, and will push the existing tendencies toward fundamental change into
sudden and premature development.

Physical strength and success in war are by no means fair tests of truth and principle; but
in the present contest, such is the condition of our country and the character of its relations
with the civilized world that, if the Union shall be restored to its former integrity, the
result will give strong evidence of the righteousness of our cause. Such are the temptations
to foreign interference, and such the evident disposition of the ruling dynasties in some powerful
nations to destroy the influence and example of this great republic, as well as to break down
her rivalry in commerce and manufactures, that nothing but a holy cause, appealing to the moral
sense of mankind, could prevent the natural alliance between despotism abroad and the kindred
system in the South which seeks to establish its tyranny on the ruins of our Government. Besides,
the diverging systems of policy in the two sections have carried on their struggle for more
than a quarter of a century, under conditions which make it demonstrable that their present
inequality of strength and means is the direct consequence of these divergencies. Their long-continued
emulation, passing through all the stages of envy, hatred, and political contention, has finally
culminated in bloody civil war; and from the peculiar circumstances of the case, the termination
of the contest, if the parties be left to themselves, will fully and fairly test the physical
strength and moral force of the contending principles. The better principle, by virtue of its
superior growth, will overthrow the worse and weaker one, which has relatively declined in
power throughout all the long contest between the two. Enlightened convictions will grow up
as the mighty conflict subsides; and institutions will be modified in conformity with the truths
which are destined to appear through the blaze and smoke of battle.

Heaven forbid that we should confound moral distinctions, and place treason and rebellion on
the same footing with patriotic devotion to the cause of Union and liberty. Political and moral
errors, however innocent in intention, stand on the same footing, as to their consequences,
with all other violations of natural law. They bring retribution inevitable; nor can the blind
and ignorant partisan of wrong entirely escape the shame of his misconduct, on the ground of
erroneous judgment. But let us not arrogate to ourselves a superiority of virtue, which in
reality we have no just right to claim. Are we sure that, even on our side, which we consider
that of truth and humanity, all our individual motives are up to the level of the great principles
involved? Are we not rather, to some extent, the blind instruments of social causes, stronger
than our own will, and while seeming to follow the inclination of our own enlightened minds,
are we not impelled by passion and ambition in the inevitable direction indicated, and even
necessitated, by the circumstances surrounding us? Are not similar influences operating on
the Southern mind, and forcing it, with a compulsion equally inexorable, into the fatal current
of civil war? With the masses on both sides, this is undoubtedly true. Whole communities do
not engage in such disastrous strife in mere wantonness and wicked advocacy of a bad cause.
Either their judgment is distorted, or their passions aroused to such an extent as to render
them utterly blind to the true nature of the principles involved, and to make them believe
they are acting, under the strongest provocation, for the defence of their honor, their interests,
and their acknowledged rights. Every liberal mind will readily concede the existence of these
sentiments and motives.

But suppose the war ended by the overthrow of the rebellion and the restoration of the Federal
authority: what is to be the effect in those States which have been the theatre of the great
conspiracy, whence have issued all the mighty armies which have assailed so fiercely the Constitution
and Government of our fathers? Will the men who have shed their blood freely to destroy the
Union ever again be brought to sustain it with sincerity and zeal? Can they be expected to
acknowledge their profound error, and receive again heartily to their affections and willing
obedience the authority which they have so haughtily spurned and sought to smite with utter
destruction? This is a momentous question. It is the most important which can be presented
to the country at the moment of its anticipated triumph, when the fearful clash of arms is
about to subside and give place to the serious labor of conciliation and reconstruction. To
conquer the rebellion will be, at least, to make all its aims utterly hopeless. Failure and
disaster will be forever stamped upon the ideas on which the revolution has been founded, and
they, with their inspiration, good or bad, will be permanently overthrown, together with the
men who have used them so efficiently for the inauguration and continuance of this tremendous
strife. There is wonderful power in the success of an idea, as there is a corresponding influence
in the utter overthrow of its physical manifestations and efforts. A cause rendered hopeless
by defeat ceases to sustain the passions which it has excited, under the influence of which
it has made itself respectable and powerful. If it be founded in truth and right, it will have
within itself the elements of resuscitation, and it can never become altogether hopeless. But
if it have no such basis of substantial truth, its failure once is for all time. The hearts
of men cannot long cling to such a cause. Its traditions even become odious, and the effort
will be to ignore and forget its incidents, and to escape the discredit of having participated
in its ambitious struggles.

But to conquer the rebellion is not to subjugate the South. This is a distinction of the utmost
importance in attempting to estimate the consequences of the great struggle. So far from the
subjugation of the Southern people resulting, in any contingency, the success of the Union
arms must be their regeneration and redemption. To overthrow the confederate government will
be only to relieve the people from its grasp, and to reinstate them in the rights and liberties
which they have hitherto enjoyed. A combination of force, fraud, and self-delusion has sustained
the power of the rebel dynasty, and enabled it to wield the influence and authority of the
whole people of the seceding States, with some few remarkable exceptions. To break up this
combination will do more than merely defeat a hostile power: it will, in effect, annihilate
the whole vicious organization, and leave its elements free to engage in other combinations,
more in accordance with right, and better calculated to secure success and prosperity. It is
not unreasonable to anticipate that they will eventually resume their former relations with
the Federal Government, as most conducive to these ends. There are some men, perhaps one whole
class, who can never escape the responsibility of all the overwhelming evils and calamities
which the war has brought upon the South. The cordial acquiescence of these can hardly be anticipated;
but their power will be completely destroyed, and the people may well be expected to disregard
their murmurs and complaints. Indeed, it is not altogether unlikely that an injured and exasperated
people may turn on the authors of their ruin, and wreak upon them a fearful vengeance, so far,
at least, as to ostracize and banish them forever from the land they have blighted and destroyed.
The masses of the people, holding few or no slaves, though involved in the war by force of
the general delusion into which they have been artfully inveigled, will not consider themselves
responsible for its consequences; they will rather look on themselves as the victims of designing
men, who, for selfish purposes, have partly seduced and partly impelled them into the perils
and disasters of a gigantic but fruitless rebellion. This state of feeling will leave the minds
of the Southern people in a condition to estimate fairly their own relations to the rebellion,
and their obligations to the Union, which again calls them, with paternal tenderness, to its
generous confidence and magnanimous protection. They will have no cause for apprehension that
their restoration to good fellowship and perfect equality will not be complete and free from
all unfriendly reservations.

But this influence will not operate on those alone who have few or no slaves, comprehending
the great mass of whites: it will exert itself more notably on the large body of slaves themselves.
This is an element in the calculation which, humble though it be, cannot be overlooked without
great error in the results. A fundamental change will take place in the condition of the blacks.
They will be emancipated, either gradually and safely, or with violent precipitation, with
all its evils and disasters. Yet, however the decree may come, whether by the sudden blow of
military power, or by the free and cheerful coöperation of the States and their people, the
measure itself will be plainly the result of the rebellion, as met by the firm and noble stand
assumed by the Federal Government, and maintained at so great a cost of treasure and of precious
lives. The Government which, out of civil war and chaotic strife, brings such advantages--out
of calamity and danger educes such blessings of security and progress will be entitled to the
unbounded gratitude of those who will be the chief gainers by its policy. But experience will
soon teach the whites that they will be equal gainers in the end; and, in time, we may justly
expect not only their cheerful acquiescence, but their renewed allegiance and ardent support
to the Federal authorities.

MOTTOES FOR CONTRACTORS.

   When you contract for boots and shoes,
   Be not contracted in your views.

   When you agree to clothe the body,
   Expand your soul and flee from shoddy.

   No soul the difference can see
   'Twixt chico-rye and chicoree.

   'Tis wise to feed the soldier well:
   For reason why--see Dante's 'Hell.'

SUNSHINE IN THOUGHT.[3]

The genial pen of Mr. Leland has found an attractive theme in the title of this curious and
suggestive volume. Without the formality of an inexorable system, it is written from the impulses
of a large and sympathetic nature, more accustomed to the acute observation of details than
to exact and rigid generalizations, but sending free and penetrating glances beneath the surface
of social life, and presenting a variety of sagacious hints and comments, often admirable for
their quaint, original illustrations, and seldom destitute of an important ethical bearing
and significance.

In the composition of this work, Mr. Leland has aimed at the defence of that view of life which
combines a cheerful earnestness of purpose with manly energy of action, as opposed to the melancholic,
whining, lachrymose spirit, which has been affected by certain popular modern poets, and, through
their vicious example, has been cherished as one of the essential qualities of genius. Of this
style of character Mr. Leland has not the slightest degree of tolerance. Its manifestations
are all abominable in his eyes, and unsavory in his nostrils. He cannot endure its presence;
he regards its exercise as a nuisance: its permission in the plan of a kindly Providence is
a mystery.

The influence of a morbid melancholy, whether affected or genuine, in the literature of the
United States, is justly a matter of surprise and lamentation with the author. The American
mind, as he remarks, has doubtless a strong tendency to humor. It delights in the expression
of a mischievous irony or good-natured sarcasm. The querulous wailings which are the stock
in trade of a certain class of writers are unnatural and discordant sounds. We should expect
rather a serene and cheerful melody from a young and brave-hearted race, which is in intimate
relations with the external world. Instead of this, we have sucked in with the milk of our
Puritan mothers a forlorn and sorrowful spirit. We celebrate our festivals with a sad countenance.
We attempt to make merry by singing dismal psalms. We weave our woes into poetry, and expand
our wretchedness in plaintive declamations.

This is a wide departure from the genius of Christianity, as well as from the healthy instincts
of humanity. In the first ages after Christ, the newborn element of thought was a pure and
beautiful spring, bubbling up from the moss-grown ruins of the temple of heathendom. A hopeful,
joyous tone is indicated in the symbols of the early faith preserved in the Vatican. It contained
the germ of republican freedom and of a benign and beneficent civilization. But it was driven
by political convulsions toward the East, and returned in the melancholy robes of the dreamy
and morbid oriental. It learned from Indian fakirs that laughter was a sin, that misery was
meritorious, that the hatred of beauty and joy was a virtue in the sight of Heaven. The early
Christians were imbued with the sentiment of moral grandeur and loveliness; they represented
Christ our Lord as the fair ideal of humanity; but a darker age decreed that his form should
be meagre and homely--misled by those pagan Syrian pictures, which still disfigure the churches
in Russia, and whose original may be found in the avatars of violence, modified by old Persian
influence. From the seventh to the twelfth century, the tendency to asceticism was rampant.
Beauty was proscribed as a temptation of the devil; deformed and crooked limbs were ranked
among the beatitudes; even dirt was apotheosized, and, as a consequence, millions of men were
mowed down by unheard-of forms of disease. Humanity did not submit to this rule of austerity
and torture without a struggle. There was often a brave, vigorous resistance. A lively protest
was uttered in the joyous strains of the troubadours and minnesingers. The glad spirit of nature
could not be wholly suppressed, and from amid the social oppressions of the times sweet voices
fell upon the ear, celebrating the praises of woman, the love of beauty, and the joyousness
of life.

But, according to our author, none of the great names in literature have ever proclaimed the
evangel of cheerfulness in all its health and purity. The world as yet has never been fit to
receive it. Years may pass before it will be fully unfolded. Society is still in its earliest
March spring. The fresh winds which blow are still wild and chill; the nights are long and
dreary; and during these gloomy hours, the ancient crone still relates horrible legends to
believing ears. If the elder or wiser ones only half believe them, most of the listeners still
shiver at their weird, grotesque poetry, and when they make new songs for themselves, the old
demoniac strains still linger on the air, showing the origin of their earliest lays.

