Perhaps you have let the secret out and given yourself away. It seems hardly a credit to the
race that it is able to say that; or to you, sir, that you can say it without remorse; more,
that you should offer it as a plea against maltreatment, injustice, and oppression. Who gives
the Jew the right, who gives any race the right, to sit still in a free country, and let somebody
else look after its safety? The oppressed Jew was entitled to all pity in the former times
under brutal autocracies, for he was weak and friendless, and had no way to help his case.
But he has ways now, and he has had them for a century, but I do not see that he has tried
to make serious use of then. When the Revolution set him free in France it was an act of grace--the
grace of other people; he does not appear in it as a helper. I do not know that he helped when
England set him free. Among the Twelve Sane Men of France who have stepped forward with great
Zola at their head to fight (and win, I hope and believe(3)) the battle for the most infamously
misused Jew of modern times, do you find a great or rich or illustrious Jew helping? In the
United States he was created free in the beginning--he did not need to help, of course. In
Austria and Germany and France he has a vote, but of what considerable use is it to him? He
doesn't seem to know how to apply it to the best effect. With all his splendid capacities and
all his fat wealth he is to-day not politically important in any country. In America, as early
as 1854, the ignorant Irish hod-carrier, who had a spirit of his own and a way of exposing
it to the weather, made it apparent to all that he must be politically reckoned with; yet fifteen
years before that we hardly knew what an Irishman looked like. As an intelligent force and
numerically, he has always been away down, but he has governed the country just the same. It
was because he was organised. It made his vote valuable--in fact, essential.

You will say the Jew is everywhere numerically feeble. That is nothing to the point--with the
Irishman's history for an object-lesson. But I am coming to your numerical feebleness presently.
In all parliamentary countries you could no doubt elect Jews to the legislatures--and even
one member in such a body is sometimes a force which counts. How deeply have you concerned
yourselves about this in Austria, France, and Germany? Or even in America, for that matter?
You remark that the Jews were not to blame for the riots in this Reichsrath here, and you add
with satisfaction that there wasn't one in that body. That is not strictly correct; if it were,
would it not be in order for you to explain it and apologise for it, not try to make a merit
of it? But I think that the Jew was by no means in as large force there as he ought to have
been, with his chances. Austria opens the suffrage to him on fairly liberal terms, and it must
surely be his own fault that he is so much in the background politically.

As to your numerical weakness. I mentioned some figures awhile ago--500,00--as the Jewish population
of Germany. I will add some more--6,000,000 in Russia, 5,000,000 in Austria, 250,000 in the
United States. I take them from memory; I read them in the 'Encyclopaedia Brittannica' ten
or twelve years ago. Still, I am entirely sure of them. If those statistics are correct, my
argument is not as strong as it ought to be as concerns America, but it still has strength.
It is plenty strong enough as concerns Austria, for ten years ago 5,000,000 was nine per cent
of the empire's population. The Irish would govern the Kingdom of Heaven if they had a strength
there like that.

I have some suspicions; I got them at second-hand, but they have remained with me these ten
or twelve years. When I read in the 'E.B.' that the Jewish population of the United States
was 250,000 I wrote the editor, and explained to him that I was personally acquainted with
more Jews than that in my country, and that his figures were without a doubt a misprint for
25,000,000. I also added that I was personally acquainted with that many there; but that was
only to raise his confidence in me, for it was not true. His answer miscarried, and I never
got it; but I went around talking about the matter, and people told me they had reason to suspect
that for business reasons many Jews whose dealings were mainly with the Christians did not
report themselves as Jews in the census. It looked plausible; it looks plausible yet. Look
at the city of New York; and look at Boston, and Philadelphia, and New Orleans, and Chicago,
and Cincinnati, and San Francisco--how your race swarms in those places!--and everywhere else
in America, down to the least little village. Read the signs on the marts of commerce and on
the shops; Goldstein (gold stone), Edelstein (precious stone), Blumenthal (flower-vale), Rosenthal
(rose-vale), Veilchenduft (violent odour), Singvogel (song-bird), Rosenzweig (rose branch),
and all the amazing list of beautiful and enviable names which Prussia and Austria glorified
you with so long ago. It is another instance of Europe's coarse and cruel persecution of your
race; not that it was coarse and cruel to outfit it with pretty and poetical names like those,
but it was coarse and cruel to make it pay for them or else take such hideous and often indecent
names that to-day their owners never use them; or, if they do, only on official papers. And
it was the many, not the few, who got the odious names, they being too poor to bribe the officials
to grant them better ones.

Now why was the race renamed? I have been told that in Prussia it was given to using fictitious
names, and often changing them, so as to beat the tax-gatherer, escape military service, and
so on; and that finally the idea was hit upon of furnishing all the inmates of a house with
one and the same surname, and then holding the house responsible right along for those inmates,
and accountable for any disappearances that might occur; it made the Jews keep track of each
other, for self-interest's sake, and saved the Government the trouble(4).

If that explanation of how the Jews of Prussia came to be renamed is correct, if it is true
that they fictitiously registered themselves to gain certain advantages, it may possible be
true that in America they refrain from registered themselves as Jews to fend off the damaging
prejudices of the Christian customer. I have no way of knowing whether this notion is well
founded or not. There may be other and better ways of explaining why only that poor little
250,000 of our Jews got into the 'Encyclopaedia'. I may, of course, be mistaken, but I am strongly
of the opinion that we have an immense Jewish population in America.

Point No. 3--'Can Jews do anything to improve the situation?'

I think so. If I may make a suggestion without seeming to be trying to teach my grandmother
to suck eggs, I will offer it. In our days we have learned the value of combination. We apply
it everywhere--in railway systems, in trusts, in trade unions, in Salvation Armies, in minor
politics, in major politics, in European Concerts. Whatever our strength may be, big or little,
we organise it. We have found out that that is the only way to get the most out of it that
is in it. We know the weakness of individual sticks, and the strength of the concentrated faggot.
Suppose you try a scheme like this, for instance. In England and America put every Jew on the
census-book as a Jew (in case you have not been doing that). Get up volunteer regiments composed
of Jews solely, and when the drum beats, fall in and go to the front, so as to remove the reproach
that you have few Massenas among you, and that you feed on a country but don't like to fight
for it. Next, in politics, organise your strength, band together, and deliver the casting-vote
where you can, and, where you can't, compel as good terms as possible. You huddle to yourselves
already in all countries, but you huddle to no sufficient purpose, politically speaking. You
do not seem to be organised, except for your charities. There you are omnipotent; there you
compel your due of recognition--you do not have to beg for it. It shows what you can do when
you band together for a definite purpose.

And then from America and England you can encourage your race in Austria, France, and Germany,
and materially help it. It was a pathetic tale that was told by a poor Jew a fortnight ago
during the riots, after he had been raided by the Christian peasantry and despoiled of everything
he had. He said his vote was of no value to him, and he wished he could be excused from casting
it, for indeed, casting it was a sure damage to him, since, no matter which party he voted
for, the other party would come straight and take its revenge out of him. Nine per cent of
the population, these Jews, and apparently they cannot put a plank into any candidate's platform!
If you will send our Irish lads over here I think they will organise your race and change the
aspect of the Reichsrath.

You seem to think that the Jews take no hand in politics here, that they are 'absolutely non-participants.'
I am assured by men competent to speak that this is a very large error, that the Jews are exceedingly
active in politics all over the empire, but that they scatter their work and their votes among
the numerous parties, and thus lose the advantages to be had by concentration. I think that
in America they scatter too, but you know more about that than I do.

Speaking of concentration, Dr. Herzl has a clear insight into the value of that. Have you heard
of his plan? He wishes to gather the Jews of the world together in Palestine, with a government
of their own--under the suzerainty of the Sultan, I suppose. At the Convention of Berne, last
year, there were delegates from everywhere, and the proposal was received with decided favour.
I am not the Sultan, and I am not objecting; but if that concentration of the cunningest brains
in the world were going to be made in a free country (bar Scotland), I think it would be politic
to stop it. It will not be well to let that race find out its strength. If the horses knew
theirs, we should not ride any more.

Point No. 5.--'Will the persecution of the Jews ever come to an end?'

On the score of religion, I think it has already come to an end. On the score of race prejudice
and trade, I have the idea that it will continue. That is, here and there in spots about the
world, where a barbarous ignorance and a sort of mere animal civilisation prevail; but I do
not think that elsewhere the Jew need now stand in any fear of being robbed and raided. Among
the high civilisations he seems to be very comfortably situated indeed, and to have more than
his proportionate share of the prosperities going. It has that look in Vienna. I suppose the
race prejudice cannot be removed; but he can stand that; it is no particular matter. By his
make and ways he is substantially a foreigner wherever he may be, and even the angels dislike
a foreigner. I am using this world foreigner in the German sense--stranger. Nearly all of us
have an antipathy to a stranger, even of our own nationality. We pile grip-sacks in a vacant
seat to keep him from getting it; and a dog goes further, and does as a savage would--challenges
him on the spot. The German dictionary seems to make no distinction between a stranger and
a foreigner; in its view a stranger is a foreigner--a sound position, I think. You will always
be by ways and habits and predilections substantially strangers--foreigners--wherever you are,
and that will probably keep the race prejudice against you alive.

But you were the favourites of Heaven originally, and your manifold and unfair prosperities
convince me that you have crowded back into that snug place again. Here is an incident that
is significant. Last week in Vienna a hailstorm struck the prodigious Central Cemetery and
made wasteful destruction there. In the Christian part of it, according to the official figures,
621 window-panes were broken; more than 900 singing-birds were killed; five great trees and
many small ones were torn to shreds and the shreds scattered far and wide by the wind; the
ornamental plants and other decorations of the graces were ruined, and more than a hundred
tomb-lanterns shattered; and it took the cemetery's whole force of 300 labourers more than
three days to clear away the storm's wreckage. In the report occurs this remark--and in its
italics you can hear it grit its Christian teeth: '...lediglich die israelitische Abtheilung
des Friedhofes vom Hagelwetter ganzlich verschont worden war.' Not a hailstone hit the Jewish
reservation! Such nepotism makes me tired.

Point No. 6.--'What has become of the Golden Rule?'

It exists, it continues to sparkle, and is well taken care of. It is Exhibit A in the Church's
assets, and we pull it out every Sunday and give it an airing. But you are not permitted to
try to smuggle it into this discussion, where it is irrelevant and would not feel at home.
It is strictly religious furniture, like an acolyte, or a contribution-plate, or any of those
things. It has never intruded into business; and Jewish persecution is not a religious passion,
it is a business passion.

To conclude.--If the statistics are right, the Jews constitute but one per cent of the human
race. It suggests a nebulous dim puff of star-dust lost in the blaze of the Milky Way. Properly
the Jew ought hardly to be heard of; but he is heard of, has always been heard of. He is as
prominent on the planet as any other people, and his commercial importance is extravagantly
out of proportion to the smallness of his bulk. His contributions to the world's list of great
names in literature, science, art, music, finance, medicine, and abstruse learning are also
away out of proportion to the weakness of his numbers. He has made a marvellous fight in this
world, in all the ages; and has done it with his hands tied behind him. He could be vain of
himself, and be excused for it. The Egyptian, the Babylonian, and the Persian rose, filled
the planet with sound and splendour, then faded to dream-stuff and passed away; the Greek and
the Roman followed, and made a vast noise, and they are gone; other peoples have sprung up
and held their torch high for a time, but it burned out, and they sit in twilight now, or have
vanished. The Jew saw them all, beat them all, and is now what he always was, exhibiting no
decadence, no infirmities of age, no weakening of his parts, no slowing of his energies, no
dulling of his alert and aggressive mind. All things are mortal to the Jew; all other forces
pass, but he remains. What is the secret of his immortality?

Postscript--THE JEW AS SOLDIER

When I published the above article in 'Harper's Monthly,' I was ignorant--like the rest of
the Christian world--of the fact that the Jew had a record as a soldier. I have since seen
the official statistics, and I find that he furnished soldiers and high officers to the Revolution,
the War of 1812, and the Mexican War. In the Civil War he was represented in the armies and
navies of both the North and the South by 10 per cent of his numerical strength--the same percentage
that was furnished by the Christian populations of the two sections. This large fact means
more than it seems to mean; for it means that the Jew's patriotism was not merely level with
the Christian's, but overpassed it. When the Christian volunteer arrived in camp he got a welcome
and applause, but as a rule the Jew got a snub. His company was not desired, and he was made
to feel it. That he nevertheless conquered his wounded pride and sacrificed both that and his
blood for his flag raises the average and quality of his patriotism above the Christian's.
His record for capacity, for fidelity, and for gallant soldiership in the field is as good
as any one's. This is true of the Jewish private soldiers and of the Jewish generals alike.
Major-General O. O. Howard speaks of one of his Jewish staff officers as being 'of the bravest
and best;' of another--killed at Chancellorsville--as being 'a true friend and a brave officer;'
he highly praises two of his Jewish brigadier-generals; finally, he uses these strong words:
'Intrinsically there are no more patriotic men to be found in the country than those who claim
to be of Hebrew descent, and who served with me in parallel commands or more directly under
my instructions.'

Fourteen Jewish Confederate and Union families contributed, between them, fifty-one soldiers
to the war. Among these, a father and three sons; and another, a father and four sons.

In the above article I was neither able to endorse nor repel the common approach that the Jew
is willing to feed upon a country but not to fight for it, because I did not know whether it
was true or false. I supposed it to be true, but it is not allowable to endorse wandering maxims
upon supposition--except when one is trying to make out a case. That slur upon the Jew cannot
hold up its head in presence of the figures of the War Department. It has done its work, and
done it long and faithfully, and with high approval: it ought to be pensioned off now, and
retired from active service.

(1) See 'Stirring Times in Austria,' in this volume.

(2) Here is another piece of picturesque history; and it reminds us that shabbiness and dishonesty
are not the monopoly of any race or creed, but are merely human:

'Congress has passed a bill to pay $379.56 to Moses Pendergrass, of Libertyville, Missouri.
The story of the reason of this liberality is pathetically interesting, and shows the sort
of pickle that an honest man may get into who undertakes to do an honest job of work for Uncle
Sam. In 1886 Moses Pendergrass put in a bid for the contract to carry the mail on the route
from Knob Lick to Libertyville and Coffman, thirty miles a day, from July 1, 1887, for one
years. He got the postmaster at Knob Lick to write the letter for him, and while Moses intended
that his bid should be $400, his scribe carelessly made it $4. Moses got the contract, and
did not find out about the mistake until the end of the first quarter, when he got his first
pay. When he found at what rate he was working he was sorely cast down, and opened communication
with the Post Office Department. The department informed his that he must either carry out
his contract or throw it up, and that if he threw it up his bondsman would have the pay the
Government $1,459.85 damages. So Moses carried out his contract, walked thirty miles every
week-day for a year, and carried the mail, and received for his labour $4, or, to be accurate,
$6.84; for, the route being extended after his bid was accepted, his pay was proportionately
increased. Now, after ten years, a bill was finally passed to pay to Moses the difference between
what he earned in that unlucky year and what he received.'

The 'Sun,' which tells the above story, says that bills were introduced in three or four Congresses
for Moses' relief, and that committees repeatedly investigated his claim.

It took six Congresses, containing in their persons the compressed virtues of 70,000,000 of
people, and cautiously and carefully giving expression to those virtues in the fear of God
and the next election, eleven years to find out some way to cheat a fellow Christian out of
about $13 on his honestly executed contract, and out of nearly $300 due him on its enlarged
terms. And they succeeded. During the same time they paid out $1,000,000,000 in pensions--a
third of it unearned and undeserved. This indicates a splendid all-round competency in theft,
for it starts with farthings, and works its industries all the way up to ship-loads. It may
be possible that the Jews can beat this, but the man that bets on it is taking chances.

(3) The article was written in the summer of 1898.

(4) In Austria the renaming was merely done because the Jews in some newly-acquired regions
had no surnames, but were mostly named Abraham and Moses, and therefore the tax-gatherer could
tell t'other from which, and was likely to lose his reason over the matter. The renaming was
put into the hands of the War Department, and a charming mess the graceless young lieutenants
made of it. To them a Jew was of no sort of consequence, and they labelled the race in a way
to make the angels weep. As an example, take these two: Abraham Bellyache and Schmul Godbedamned--Culled
from 'Namens Studien,' by Karl Emil Fransos.

FROM THE 'LONDON TIMES' OF 1904

Correspondence of the 'London Times' Chicago, April 1, 1904.

I resume by cable-telephone where I left off yesterday. For many hours now, this vast city--along
with the rest of the globe, of course--has talked of nothing but the extraordinary episode
mentioned in my last report. In accordance with your instructions, I will now trace the romance
from its beginnings down to the culmination of yesterday--or today; call it which you like.
By an odd chance, I was a personal actor in a part of this drama myself. The opening scene
plays in Vienna. Date, one o'clock in the morning, March 31, 1898. I had spent the evening
at a social entertainment. About midnight I went away, in company with the military attaches
of the British, Italian, and American embassies, to finish with a late smoke. This function
had been appointed to take place in the house of Lieutenant Hillyer, the third attache mentioned
in the above list. When we arrived there we found several visitors in the room; young Szczepanik;(1)
Mr. K., his financial backer; Mr. W., the latter's secretary; and Lieutenant Clayton, of the
United States Army. War was at that time threatening between Spain and our country, and Lieutenant
Clayton had been sent to Europe on military business. I was well acquainted with young Szczepanik
and his two friends, and I knew Mr. Clayton slightly. I had met him at West Point years before,
when he was a cadet. It was when General Merritt was superintendent. He had the reputation
of being an able officer, and also of being quick-tempered and plain-spoken.

This smoking-party had been gathered together partly for business. This business was to consider
the availability of the telelectroscope for military service. It sounds oddly enough now, but
it is nevertheless true that at that time the invention was not taken seriously by any one
except its inventor. Even his financial support regarded it merely as a curious and interesting
toy. Indeed, he was so convinced of this that he had actually postponed its use by the general
world to the end of the dying century by granting a two years' exclusive lease of it to a syndicate,
whose intent was to exploit it at the Paris World's Fair. When we entered the smoking-room
we found Lieutenant Clayton and Szczepanik engaged in a warm talk over the telelectroscope
in the German tongue. Clayton was saying:

'Well, you know my opinion of it, anyway!' and he brought his fist down with emphasis upon
the table.

'And I do not value it,' retorted the young inventor, with provoking calmness of tone and manner.

Clayton turned to Mr. K., and said:

'I cannot see why you are wasting money on this toy. In my opinion, the day will never come
when it will do a farthing's worth of real service for any human being.'

'That may be; yes, that may be; still, I have put the money in it, and am content. I think,
myself, that it is only a toy; but Szczepanik claims more for it, and I know him well enough
to believe that he can see father than I can--either with his telelectroscope or without it.'

The soft answer did not cool Clayton down; it seemed only to irritate him the more; and he
repeated and emphasised his conviction that the invention would never do any man a farthing's
worth of real service. He even made it a 'brass' farthing, this time. Then he laid an English
farthing on the table, and added:

'Take that, Mr. K., and put it away; and if ever the telelectroscope does any man an actual
service--mind, a real service--please mail it to me as a reminder, and I will take back what
I have been saying. Will you?'

'I will,' and Mr. K. put the coin in his pocket.

Mr. Clayton now turned toward Szczepanik, and began with a taunt--a taunt which did not reach
a finish; Szczepanik interrupted it with a hardy retort, and followed this with a blow. There
was a brisk fight for a moment or two; then the attaches separated the men.

The scene now changes to Chicago. Time, the autumn of 1901. As soon as the Paris contract released
the telelectroscope, it was delivered to public use, and was soon connected with the telephonic
systems of the whole world. The improved 'limitless-distance' telephone was presently introduced,
and the daily doings of the globe made visible to everybody, and audibly discussible, too,
by witnesses separated by any number of leagues.

By-and-by Szczepanik arrived in Chicago. Clayton (now captain) was serving in that military
department at the time. The two men resumed the Viennese quarrel of 1898. On three different
occasions they quarrelled, and were separated by witnesses. Then came an interval of two months,
during which time Szczepanik was not seen by any of his friends, and it was at first supposed
that he had gone off on a sight seeing tour and would soon be heard from. But no; no word came
from him. Then it was supposed that he had returned to Europe. Still, time drifted on, and
he was not heard from. Nobody was troubled, for he was like most inventors and other kinds
of poets, and went and came in a capricious way, and often without notice.

Now comes the tragedy. On December 29, in a dark and unused compartment of the cellar under
Captain Clayton's house, a corpse was discovered by one of Clayton's maid-servants. Friends
of deceased identified it as Szczepanik's. The man had died by violence. Clayton was arrested,
indicted, and brought to trial, charged with this murder. The evidence against him was perfect
in every detail, and absolutely unassailable. Clayton admitted this himself. He said that a
reasonable man could not examine this testimony with a dispassionate mind and not be convinced
by it; yet the man would be in error, nevertheless. Clayton swore that he did not commit the
murder, and that he had had nothing to do with it.

As your readers will remember, he was condemned to death. He had numerous and powerful friends,
and they worked hard to save him, for none of them doubted the truth of his assertion. I did
what little I could to help, for I had long since become a close friend of his, and thought
I knew that it was not in his character to inveigle an enemy into a corner and assassinate
him. During 1902 and 1903 he was several times reprieved by the governor; he was reprieved
once more in the beginning of the present year, and the execution day postponed to March 31.

The governor's situation has been embarrassing, from the day of the condemnation, because of
the fact that Clayton's wife is the governor's niece. The marriage took place in 1899, when
Clayton was thirty-four and the girl twenty-three, and has been a happy one. There is one child,
a little girl three years old. Pity for the poor mother and child kept the mouths of grumblers
closed at first; but this could not last for ever--for in America politics has a hand in everything--and
by-and-by the governor's political opponents began to call attention to his delay in allowing
the law to take its course. These hints have grown more and more frequent of late, and more
and more pronounced. As a natural result, his own part grew nervous. Its leaders began to visit
Springfield and hold long private conferences with him. He was now between two fires. On the
one hand, his niece was imploring him to pardon her husband; on the other were the leaders,
insisting that he stand to his plain duty as chief magistrate of the State, and place no further
bar to Clayton's execution. Duty won in the struggle, and the Governor gave his word that he
would not again respite the condemned man. This was two weeks ago. Mrs. Clayton now said:

'Now that you have given your word, my last hope is gone, for I know you will never go back
from it. But you have done the best you could for John, and I have no reproaches for you. You
love him, and you love me, and we know that if you could honourable save him, you would do
it. I will go to him now, and be what help I can to him, and get what comfort I may out of
the few days that are left to us before the night comes which will have no end for me in life.
You will be with me that day? You will not let me bear it alone?'

'I will take you to him myself, poor child, and I will be near you to the last.'

By the governor's command, Clayton was now allowed every indulgence he might ask for which
could interest his mind and soften the hardships of his imprisonment. His wife and child spent
the days with him; I was his companion by night. He was removed from the narrow cell which
he had occupied during such a dreary stretch of time, and given the chief warden's roomy and
comfortable quarters. His mind was always busy with the catastrophe of his life, and with the
slaughtered inventor, and he now took the fancy that he would like to have the telelectroscope
and divert his mind with it. He had his wish. The connection was made with the international
telephone-station, and day by day, and night by night, he called up one corner of the globe
after another, and looked upon its life, and studied its strange sights, and spoke with its
people, and realised that by grace of this marvellous instrument he was almost as free as the
birds of the air, although a prisoner under locks and bars. He seldom spoke, and I never interrupted
him when he was absorbed in this amusement. I sat in his parlour and read, and smoked, and
the nights were very quiet and reposefully sociable, and I found them pleasant. Now and then
I would her him say 'Give me Yedo;' next, 'Give me Hong-Kong;' next, 'Give me Melbourne.' And
I smoked on, and read in comfort, while he wandered about the remote underworld, where the
sun was shining in the sky, and the people were at their daily work. Sometimes the talk that
came from those far regions through the microphone attachment interested me, and I listened.

Yesterday--I keep calling it yesterday, which is quite natural, for certain reasons--the instrument
remained unused, and that also was natural, for it was the eve of the execution day. It was
spent in tears and lamentations and farewells. The governor and the wife and child remained
until a quarter-past eleven at night, and the scenes I witnessed were pitiful to see. The execution
was to take place at four in the morning. A little after eleven a sound of hammering broke
out upon the still night, and there was a glare of light, and the child cried out, 'What is
that, papa?' and ran to the window before she could be stopped and clapped her small hands
and said, 'Oh, come and see, mamma--such a pretty thing they are making!' The mother knew--and
fainted. It was the gallows!

She was carried away to her lodging, poor woman, and Clayton and I were alone--alone, and thinking,
brooding, dreaming. We might have been statues, we sat so motionless and still. It was a wild
night, for winter was come again for a moment, after the habit of this region in the early
spring. The sky was starless and black, and a strong wind was blowing from the lake. The silence
in the room was so deep that all outside sounds seemed exaggerated by contrast with it. These
sounds were fitting ones: they harmonised with the situation and the conditions: the boom and
thunder of sudden storm-gusts among the roofs and chimneys, then the dying down into moanings
and wailings about the eaves and angles; now and then a gnashing and lashing rush of sleet
along the window-panes; and always the muffled and uncanny hammering of the gallows-builders
in the court-yard. After an age of this, another sound--far off, and coming smothered and faint
through the riot of the tempest--a bell tolling twelve! Another age, and it was tolled again.
By-and-by, again. A dreary long interval after this, then the spectral sound floated to us
once more--one, two three; and this time we caught our breath; sixty minutes of life left!

Clayton rose, and stood by the window, and looked up into the black sky, and listened to the
thrashing sleet and the piping wind; then he said: 'That a dying man's last of earth should
be--this!' After a little he said: 'I must see the sun again--the sun!' and the next moment
he was feverishly calling: 'China! Give me China--Peking!'

I was strangely stirred, and said to myself: 'To think that it is a mere human being who does
this unimaginable miracle--turns winter into summer, night into day, storm into calm, gives
the freedom of the great globe to a prisoner in his cell, and the sun in his naked splendour
to a man dying in Egyptian darkness.'

I was listening.

'What light! what brilliancy! what radiance!... This is Peking?'

'Yes.'

'The time?'

'Mid-afternoon.'

'What is the great crowd for, and in such gorgeous costumes? What masses and masses of rich
colour and barbaric magnificence! And how they flash and glow and burn in the flooding sunlight!
What is the occasion of it all?'

'The coronation of our new emperor--the Czar.'

'But I thought that that was to take place yesterday.'

'This is yesterday--to you.'

'Certainly it is. But my mind is confused, these days: there are reasons for it.... Is this
the beginning of the procession?'

'Oh, no; it began to move an hour ago.'

'Is there much more of it still to come?'

'Two hours of it. Why do you sigh?'

'Because I should like to see it all.'

'And why can't you?'

'I have to go--presently.'

'You have an engagement?'

After a pause, softly: 'Yes.' After another pause: 'Who are these in the splendid pavilion?'

'The imperial family, and visiting royalties from here and there and yonder in the earth.'

'And who are those in the adjoining pavilions to the right and left?'

'Ambassadors and their families and suites to the right; unofficial foreigners to the left.'

'If you will be so good, I--'

Boom! That distant bell again, tolling the half-hour faintly through the tempest of wind and
sleet. The door opened, and the governor and the mother and child entered--the woman in widow's
weeds! She fell upon her husband's breast in a passion of sobs, and I--I could not stay; I
could not bear it. I went into the bedchamber, and closed the door. I sat there waiting--waiting--waiting,
and listening to the rattling sashes and the blustering of the storm. After what seemed a long,
long time, I heard a rustle and movement in the parlour, and knew that the clergyman and the
sheriff and the guard were come. There was some low-voiced talking; then a hush; then a prayer,
with a sound of sobbing; presently, footfalls--the departure for the gallows; then the child's
happy voice: 'Don't cry now, mamma, when we've got papa again, and taking him home.'

The door closed; they were gone. I was ashamed: I was the only friend of the dying man that
had no spirit, no courage. I stepped into the room, and said I would be a man and would follow.
But we are made as we are made, and we cannot help it. I did not go.

I fidgeted about the room nervously, and presently went to the window and softly raised it--drawn
by that dread fascination which the terrible and the awful exert--and looked down upon the
court-yard. By the garish light of the electric lamps I saw the little group of privileged
witnesses, the wife crying on her uncle's breast, the condemned man standing on the scaffold
with the halter around his neck, his arms strapped to his body, the black cap on his head,
the sheriff at his side with his hand on the drop, the clergyman in front of him with bare
head and his book in his hand.

'I am the resurrection and the life--'

I turned away. I could not listen; I could not look. I did not know whither to go or what to
do. Mechanically and without knowing it, I put my eye to that strange instrument, and there
was Peking and the Czar's procession! The next moment I was leaning out of the window, gasping,
suffocating, trying to speak, but dumb from the very imminence of the necessity of speaking.
The preacher could speak, but I, who had such need of words--'And may God have mercy upon your
soul. Amen.'

The sheriff drew down the black cap, and laid his hand upon the lever. I got my voice.

'Stop, for God's sake! The man is innocent. Come here and see Szczepanik face to face!'

Hardly three minutes later the governor had my place at the window, and was saying:

'Strike off his bonds and set him free!'

Three minutes later all were in the parlour again. The reader will imagine the scene; I have
no need to describe it. It was a sort of mad orgy of joy.

A messenger carried word to Szczepanik in the pavilion, and one could see the distressed amazement
in his face as he listened to the tale. Then he came to his end of the line, and talked with
Clayton and the governor and the others; and the wife poured out her gratitude upon him for
saving her husband's life, and in her deep thankfulness she kissed him at twelve thousand miles'
range.

The telelectroscopes of the world were put to service now, and for many hours the kinds and
queens of many realms (with here and there a reporter) talked with Szczepanik, and praised
him; and the few scientific societies which had not already made him an honorary member conferred
that grace upon him.

How had he come to disappear from among us? It was easily explained. HE had not grown used
to being a world-famous person, and had been forced to break away from the lionising that was
robbing him of all privacy and repose. So he grew a beard, put on coloured glasses, disguised
himself a little in other ways, then took a fictitious name, and went off to wander about the
earth in peace.

Such is the tale of the drama which began with an inconsequential quarrel in Vienna in the
spring of 1898, and came near ending as a tragedy in the spring of 1904.

II

Correspondence of the 'London Times' Chicago, April 5, 1904

To-day, by a clipper of the Electric Line, and the latter's Electric Railway connections, arrived
an envelope from Vienna, for Captain Clayton, containing an English farthing. The receiver
of it was a good deal moved. He called up Vienna, and stood face to face with Mr. K., and said:

'I do not need to say anything: you can see it all in my face. My wife has the farthing. Do
not be afraid--she will not throw it away.'

III

Correspondence of the 'London Times' Chicago, April 23, 1904

