Legends of the County Clare.--How Ussheen (Ossian) visited the Land of "Thiernah Ogieh" The
lady then explained that she was not of mortal birth, and that he who wooed an immortal bride
must be prepared to encounter dangers such as would appal the ordinary race of men. Ussheen,
without hesitation, declared his readiness to encounter any foe, mortal or immortal, that might
be opposed to him in her service. The lady then declared herself to be the queen of "Thiernah
Ogieh," and invited him to accompany her thither and share her throne. They then set out on
their journey, one in all respects similar to that undertaken by Thomas the Rhymer and the
queen of Faerie, and having overcome all obstacles, arrived at "the land of perpetual youth,"
where all the delights of the terrestrial paradise were thrown open to Ussheen, to be enjoyed
with only one restriction. A broad flat stone was pointed out to him in one part of the palace
garden, on which he was forbidden to stand, under penalty of the heaviest misfortune. One day,
however, finding himself near the fatal stone, the temptation to stand on it became irresistible,
and he yielded to it, and immediately found himself in full view of his native land, the existence
of which he had forgotten from the moment he had entered the kingdom of Thiernah Ogieh. But
alas! how was it changed from that country he had left only a few days since, for "the strong
had become weak," and "the brave become cowards," while oppression and violence held undisputed
sway through land. Overcome with grief, he hastened to the the queen to beg that he might be
restored to his country without delay, that he might endeavour to apply some remedy to its
misfortunes. The queen's prophetic skill made her aware of Ussheen's transgression of her commands
before he spoke, and she exerted all her persuasive powers to prevail upon him to give up his
desire to return to Erin, but in vain. She farther endued him with wisdom and knowledge far
surpassing that of men. Annoyed at his mistake, he forgot the injunctions of his bride, and
sprung from his horse to lift the sack from the ground, letting the bridle fall from his hand
at the same time: instantly the horse struck fire from the ground with his hoofs, and uttering
a neigh louder than thunder, vanished; at the same instant his curling locks fell from Ussheen's
head, darkness closed over his beaming eyes, the more than mortal strength forsook his limbs,
and, a feeble helpless old man, he stretched forth his hands seeking some one to lead him:
but the mental gifts bestowed on him by his immortal bride did not leave him, and, though unable
to serve his countrymen with his sword, he bestowed upon them the advice and instruction which
flowed from wisdom greater than that of mortals.

FRANCIS ROBERT DAVIES.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE CORRESPONDENCE.

Your readers will no doubt exclaim, is not this question already settled for ever, if not by
MR. SINGER'S substitution of rumourer's, at least by that of R. H. C., viz. rude day's? I must
confess that I thought the former so good, when it first appeared in these pages, that nothing
more was wanted; yet this is surpassed by the suggestion of R. H. C. As conjectural emendations,
they may rank with any that Shakspeare's text has been favoured with; in short, the poet might
undoubtedly have written either the one or the other.

But this is not the question. The question is, did he write the passage as it stands in the
first folio, which I have copied above? Subsequent consideration has satisfied me that he did.
I find the following passage in the Merchant of Venice, Act II.

Is it very difficult to believe that the poet who called the departing night a run-away would
apply the same term to the day under similar circumstances?

Surely the first folio is a much more correctly printed book than many of Shakspeare's editors
and critics would have us believe.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

The Word "clamour" in "The Winter's Tale."--MR. KEIGHTLEY complains (Vol viii., p. 241.) that
some observations of mine (p. 169.) on the word clamour, in The Winter's Tale, are precisely
similar to his own in Vol. vii., p. 615. Had they been so in reality, I presume our Editor
would not have inserted them; but I think they contain something farther, suggesting, as they
do, the A.-S. origin of the word, and going far to prove that our modern calm, the older clame,
the Shakspearian clamour, the more frequent clem, Chaucer's clum, &c., all of them spring from
the same source, viz. the A.-S. clam or clom, which means a band, clasp, bandage, chain, prison;
from which substantive comes the verb clæmian, to clam, to stick or glue together, to bind,
to imprison.

If I passed over in silence those points on which MR. KEIGHTLEY and myself agreed, I need scarcely
assure him that it was for the sake of brevity, and not from any want of respect to him.

I may remark, by the way, on a conjecture of MR. KEIGHTLEY'S (Vol. vii., p. 615.), that perhaps,
in Macbeth, Act V. Sc. 5., Shakspeare might have written "till famine clem thee," and not,
as it stands in the first folio, "till famine cling thee," that he is indeed, as he says, "in
the region of conjecture:" cling is purely A.-S., as he will find in Bosworth, "Clingan, to
wither, pine, to cling or shrink up; marcescere."

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

Three Passages in "Measure for Measure."--H. C. K. has a treacherous memory, or rather, what
I believe to be the truth, he, like myself, has not a complete Shakspeare apparatus. COLLIER'S
first edition surely cannot be in his library, or he would have known that Warburton, long
ago, read seared for feared, and that the same word appears in Lord Ellesmere's copy of the
first folio, the correction having been made, as MR. COLLIER remarks, while the sheet was at
press. I however assure H. C. K. that I regard his correction as perfectly original. Still
I have my doubts if seared be the poet's word, for I have never met it but in connexion with
hot iron; and I should be inclined to prefer sear or sere; but this again is always physically
dry, and not metaphorically so, and I fear that the true word is not to be recovered.

I cannot consent to go back with H. C. K. to the Anglo-Saxon for a sense of building, which
I do not think it ever bore, at least not in our poet's time. His quotation from the "Jewel
House," &c. is not to the point, for the context shows that "a building word" is a word or
promise that will {362} set me a-building, i. e. writing. After all I see no difficulty in
"the all-building law;" it means the law that builds, maintains, and repairs the whole social
edifice, and is well suited to Angelo, whose object was to enhance the favour he proposed to grant.

Again, if H. C. K. had looked at COLLIER'S edit., he would have seen that in Act I. Sc. 2.,
princely is the reading of the second folio, and not a modern conjecture. If he rejects this
authority, he must read a little farther on perjury for penury. As to the Italian prenze, I
cannot receive it. I very much doubt Shakspeare's knowledge of Italian, and am sure that he
would not, if he understood the word, use it as an adjective. MR. COLLIER'S famed corrector
reads with Warburton priestly, and substitutes garb for guards, a change which convinces me
(if proof were wanting) that he was only a guesser like ourselves, for it is plain, from the
previous use of the word living, that guards is the right word.

THOS. KEIGHTLEY.

Shakspeare's Works with a Digest of all the Readings (Vol. viii., pp. 74, 170.).--I fully concur
with your correspondent's suggestion, and beg to suggest to MR. HALLIWELL that his splendid
monograph edition would be greatly improved if he would undertake the task. As his first volume
contains but one play (Tempest), it may not be too late to adopt the suggestion, so that every
variation of the text (in the briefest possible form) might be seen at a glance.

ESTE.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEATH ON THE FINGERS.

    "Isaac saith, I am old, and I know not the day of my death (Gen.
    xxvii. 2.); no more doth any, though never so young. As soon (saith the
    proverb) goes the lamb's skin to the market as that of the old
    sheep; and the Hebrew saying is, There be as many young skulls in
    Golgotha as old; young men may die (for none have or can make any
    agreement with the grave, or any covenant with death, Isa. xxviii.
    15. 18.), but old men must die. 'Tis the grant statute of heaven
    (Heb. ix. 27.). Senex quasi seminex, an old man is half dead; yea,
    now, at fifty years old, we are accounted three parts dead; this lesson
    we may learn from our fingers' ends, the dimensions whereof demonstrate
    this to us, beginning at the end of the little finger, representing our
    childhood, rising up to a little higher at the end of the ring-finger,
    which betokens our youth; from it to the top of the middle finger,
    which is the highest point of our elevated hand, and so most aptly
    represents our middle age, when we come to our [Greek: akmê], or height
    of stature and strength; then begins our declining age, from thence to
    the end of our forefinger which amounts to a little fall, but from
    thence to the end of the thumb there is a great fall, to show, when man
    goes down (in his old age) he falls fast and far, and breaks (as we
    say) with a witness. Now, if our very fingers' end do read us such a
    divine lecture of mortality, oh, that we could take it out, and have it
    perfect (as we say) on our fingers' end, &c.

    "To old men death is præ januis, stands before their door, &c. Old
    men have (pedem in cymbâ Charonis) one foot in the grave already; and
    the Greek word [Greek: gêrôn] (an old man) is derived from [Greek: para
    to eis gên oran], which signifies a looking towards the ground;
    decrepit age goes stooping and grovelling, as groaning to the grave. It
    doth not only expect death, but oft solicits it."--Christ. Ness's
    Compleat History and Mystery of the Old and New Test., fol. Lond.
    1690, chap. xii. p. 227.

From The Barren Tree, a sermon on Luke xiii. 7., preached at Paul's Cross, Oct. 26, 1623, by
Thos. Adams:

    "Our bells ring, our chimneis smoake, our fields rejoice, our children
    dance, ourselues sing and play, Jovis omnia plena. But when
    righteousnesse hath sowne and comes to reape, here is no haruest;
    [Greek: ouk euriskô], I finde none. And as there was neuer lesse
    wisdome in Greece then in time of the Seven Wise Men, so neuer lesse
    pietie among vs, then now, when vpon good cause most is expected. When
    the sunne is brightest the stars be darkest: so the cleerer our light,
    the more gloomy our life with the deeds of darkness. The Cimerians,
    that live in a perpetuall mist, though they deny a sunne, are not
    condemned of impietie; but Anaxogoras, that saw the sunne and yet
    denied it, is not condemned of ignorance, but of impietie. Former times
    were like Leah, bleare-eyed, but fruitful; the present, like Rachel,
    faire, but barren. We give such acclamation to the Gospell, that we
    quite forget to observe the law. As vpon some solenne festivall, the
    bells are rung in all steeples, but then the clocks are tyed vp: there
    is a great vntun'd confusion and clangor, but no man knowes how the
    time passeth. So in this vniuersall allowance of libertie by the
    Gospell (which indeed rejoyceth our hearts, had we the grace of sober
    vsage), the clocks that tel vs how the time passes, Truth and
    Conscience, that show the bounded vse and decent forme of things, are
    tyed vp, and cannot be heard. Still Fructum non invenio, I finde no
    fruits. I am sorry to passe the fig-tree in this plight: but as I finde
    it, so I must leave it, till the Lord mend it."--Pp. 39, 40., 4to.
    Lond. 1623.

BALLIOLENSIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

On a "Custom of y^e Englyshe."--When a more than ordinarily doubtful matter is offered us for
credence, we are apt to inquire of the teller if he "sees any green" in our optics, accompanying
the query by an elevation of the right eyelid with the forefinger. Now, regarding this merely
as a "fast" custom, I marvelled greatly at finding a similar action noted by worthy Master
Blunt, as conveying to his mind an analogous meaning. I can scarcely credit its antiquity;
but what other meaning can I understand from the episode he {363} relates? He had been trying
to pass himself off as a native, but--

    "The third day, in the morning, I, prying up and down alone, met a
    Turke, who, in Italian, told me--Ah! are you an Englishman, and with a
    kind of malicious posture laying his forefinger under his eye,
    methought he had the lookes of a designe."--Voyage in the Levant,
    performed by Mr. Henry Blunt, p. 60.: Lond. 1650.

--a silent, but expressive, "posture," tending to eradicate any previously formed opinion of
the verdantness of Mussulmans!

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

Epitaph at Crayford.--I send the following lines, if you think them worthy an insertion in
your Epitaphiana: a friend saw them in the churchyard of Crayford, Kent.

    "To the Memory of PETER IZOD, who was thirty-five years clerk of this
    parish, and always proved himself a pious and mirthful man.

     "The life of this clerk was just three score and ten,
      During half of which time he had sung out Amen.

Tradition reports these verses to have been composed by some curate of the parish.

QUÆSTOR.

The Font at Islip.--

    "In the garden is placed a relic of some interest--the font in which it
    is said King Edward the Confessor was baptised at Islip. The block of
    stone in which the basin of immersion is excavated, is unusually massy.
    It is of an octangular shape, and the outside is adorned by tracery
    work. The interior diameter of the basin is thirty inches, and the
    depth twenty. The whole, with the pedestal, which is of a piece with
    the rest, is five feet high, and bears the following imperfect
    inscription:

     'This sacred Font Saint Edward first receavd,
        From Womb to Grace, from Grace to Glory went,
      His virtuous life. To this fayre Isle beqveth'd,
        Prase ... and to vs but lent.
      Let this remaine, the Trophies of his Fame,
      A King baptizd from hence a Saint became.'

    "Then is inscribed:

     'This Fonte came from the Kings Chapell in Islip.'"--Extracted from
         the Beauties of England and Wales, title "Oxfordshire," p. 454.

In the gardens at Kiddington there--

    "was an old font wherein it is said Edward the Confessor was baptized,
    being brought thither from an old decayed chapel at Islip (the
    birth-place of that religious prince), where it had been put up to an
    indecent use, as well as the chapel."--Extracted from The English
    Baronets, being a Historical and Genealogical Account of their
    Families, published 1727.

The Viscounts Montague, and consequently the Brownes of Kiddington, traced their descent from
this king through Joan de Beaufort, daughter of John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster.

C. B.

"As good as a Play."--I note this very ordinary phrase as having royal origin or, at least,
authority. It was a remark of King Charles II., when he revived a practice of his predecessors,
and attended the sittings of the House of Lords.

The particular occasion was the debate, then interesting to him, on Lord Roos' Divorce Bill.

W. T. M.

Hong Kong.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

LOVETT OF ASTWELL.

It is stated in all the pedigrees of this family which I have seen, that Thomas Lovett, Esq.,
of Astwell in Northamptonshire, who died in 1542, married for his first wife Elizabeth, daughter
(Burke calls her "heir," Extinct Baronetage, p. 110.) of John Boteler, Esq., of Woodhall Watton,
in Hertfordshire. The pedigree of the Botelers in Clutterbuck's Hertfordshire (vol. ii. p.
476.) does not notice this marriage, nor is there any distinct allusion to it in the wills
of either family. Thomas Lovett's will, dated 20th November, 1542, and proved on the following
19th January, does not contain the name of Boteler. (Testamenta Vetusta, vol. ii. p. 697.)
His father Thomas Lovett, indeed, in his will dated 29th October, 7 Henry VII., and proved
28th January, 1492 (Test. Vetust., vol. ii. p. 410.), bequeaths to Isabel Lovett and Margaret,
his daughters, "Cl. which John Boteler oweth me," but he refers to no relationship between
the families. Again, "John Butteler, Esquier," by his will, dated 7th September, 1513, and
proved at Lambeth 11th July, 1515, appoints "his most gracious Maister, Maister Thomas Louett,"
to be supervisor of his will, and bequeaths to him "a Sauterbook as a poore remembraunce;"
but he alludes to no marriage, nor does he mention a daughter Elizabeth. This John Boteler
is said by Clutterbuck to have married three wives: 1. Katherine, daughter of Thomas Acton;
2. Margaret, daughter of Henry Belknap, who died 18th August, 1513; 3. Dorothy, daughter of
William Tyrrell, Esq., of Gipping in Suffolk: the last-mentioned was the mother of his heir,
Sir Philip Boteler, Kt.; but I can nowhere find who was the mother of the son Richard, and
the daughters Mary and Joyce mentioned in his will, {364} or of Thomas Lovett's wife. I cannot
help fancying that Elizabeth Lovett was his only child by one of his wives, and was perhaps
heir to her mother. Can one of your contributors bring forward any authority to confirm or
disprove this conjecture? Whilst I am speaking of the Lovett pedigree, I would also advert
to two other contradictions in the popular accounts of it. That most inaccurate of books, Betham's
Baronetage, vol. v. p. 517., says, Giles Pulton, Esq., of Desborough, married Anne, daughter
of Thomas Lovett, Esq., of Astwell: the same author, vol. i. p. 299., calls her Catherine;
which is correct? Neither Anne nor Catherine is mentioned in Thomas Lovett the Elder's will
(Test. Vetust., vol. ii. p. 410). Again, Betham, Burke, and Bridges (History of Northamptonshire,
"Astwell") have rolled out Thomas Lovett into two persons, and in fact have made him appear
the son of his second wife Joan Billinge, who was not the ancestress of the Lovetts of Astwell
at all. Nor was it possible she could be; for Thomas Lovett, in his will, dated 1492, speaks
of her as "Joan, my wife, late the wife of John Hawys, one of the Justices of the Common Pleas."
Now this John Hawys was living in 1487, and Lovett's son and heir, Thomas, was seventeen years
old in 1492. The abstract of Lovett's will in the Test. Vetust., calling Thomas Lovett the
Younger "my son and heir by the said Joan my wife," must therefore be manifestly incorrect.
I will not apologise for the minuteness of this account, as I believe the correction of detail
in published pedigrees to be one of the most valuable features of "N. & Q.;" but I am almost
ashamed of the length of my communication, which I hope some of your readers may throw light upon.

TEWARS.

       *       *       *       *       *

OATHS.

