London, April 22, 1786.

Dear Sir,

In your letter of October the 29th, you desired me to send you one of the new lamps. I tried
at every probable place in Paris, and could not get a tolerable one. I have been glad of it
since I came here, as I find them much better made here. I now deliver one, with this letter,
into the hands of Mr. Fulwar Skipwith, a merchant from Virginia, settled here, who promises
to send it to you, with one for Mr. C. Thomson. Of this be pleased to accept, from me. It is
now found, that they may be used with almost any oil.

I expect to leave this place in about three days. Our public letters, joint and separate, will
inform you what has been done, and what could not be done here. With respect to a commercial
treaty with this country, be assured, that this government not only has it not in contemplation
at present to make any, but that they do not conceive that any circumstances will arise, which
shall render it expedient for them to have any political connection with us. They think we
shall be glad of their commerce on their own terms. There is no party in our favor here, either
in power or out of power. Even the opposition concur with the ministry and the nation in this.
I can scarcely consider as a party, the Marquis of Lansdowne, and a half dozen characters about
him, such as Dr. Price, &c. who are impressed with the utility of a friendly connection with
us. The former does not venture this sentiment in parliament, and the latter are not in situations
to be heard. The Marquis of Lansdowne spoke to me affectionately of your brother, Doctor Lee,
and desired his respects to him, which I beg leave to communicate through you. Were he to come
into the ministry (of which there is not the most distant prospect), he must adopt the King's
system, or go out again, as he did before, for daring to depart from it. When we see, that
through all the changes of ministry, which have taken place during the present reign, there
has never been a change of system with respect to America, we cannot reasonably doubt, that
this is the system of the King himself. His obstinacy of character we know; his hostility we
have known, and it is embittered by ill success. If ever this nation, during his life, enter
into arrangements with us, it must be in consequence of events, of which they do not at present
see a possibility. The object of the present ministry is to buoy up the nation with flattering
calculations of their present prosperity, and to make them believe they are better without
us than with us. This they seriously believe; for what is it men cannot be made to believe?
I dined the other day in a company of the ministerial party. A General Clark, a Scotchman and
ministerialist, sat next to me. He introduced the subject of American affairs, and in the course
of the conversation told me, that were America to petition parliament to be again received
on their former footing, the petition would be very generally rejected. He was serious in this,
and I think it was the sentiment of the company, and is the sentiment perhaps of the nation.
In this they are wise, but for a foolish reason. They think they lost more by suffering us
to participate of their commercial privileges, at home and abroad, than they lose by our political
severance. The true reason, however, why such an application should be rejected, is, that in
a very short time we should oblige them to add another hundred millions to their debt, in unsuccessful
attempts to retain the subjection offered to them. They are at present in a frenzy, and will
not be recovered from it, till they shall have leaped the precipice they are now so boldly
advancing to. Writing from England, I write you nothing but English news. The continent, at
present, furnishes nothing interesting. I shall hope the favor of your letters, at times.

London, April 22, 1786.

Dear Sir,

In one of your former letters, you expressed a wish to have one of the newly invented lamps.
I find them made here much better than at Paris, and take the liberty of asking your acceptance
of one, which will accompany this letter. It is now found, that any tolerable oil may be used
in them. The spermaceti oil is best, of the cheap kinds.

I could write you volumes on the improvements which I find made, and making here, in the arts.
One deserves particular notice, because it is simple, great, and likely to have extensive consequences.
It is the application of steam, as an agent for working grist-mills. I have visited the one
lately made here. It was at that time turning eight pair of stones. It consumes one hundred
bushels of coal a day. It is proposed to put up thirty pair of stones. I do not know whether
the quantity of fuel is to be increased. We know, that steam is one of the most powerful engines
we can employ; and in America fuel is abundant. I find no new publication here worth sending
to you. I shall set out for Paris within three or four days. Our public letters will inform
you of our public proceedings here.

London, April 23, 1786.

Sir,

In my letter of March the 12th, I had the honor of explaining to you the motives which had
brought me to this place. A joint letter from Mr. Adams and myself, sent by the last packet,
informed you of the result of our conferences with the Tripoline minister. The conferences
with the minister of Portugal have, been drawn to a greater length than I expected. However,
every thing is now agreed, and the treaty will be ready for signature the day after to-morrow.
I shall set out for Paris the same day. With this country nothing is done: and that nothing
is intended to be done, on their part, admits not the smallest doubt. The nation is against
any change of measures: the ministers are against it; some from principle, others from subserviency:
and the King, more than all men, is against it. If we take a retrospect to the beginning of
the present reign, we observe, that amidst all the changes of ministry, no change of measures
with respect to America ever took place; excepting only at the moment of the peace; and the
minister of that moment was immediately removed. Judging of the future by the past, I do not
expect a change of disposition during the present reign, which bids fair to be a long one,
as the King is healthy and temperate. That he is persevering, we know. If he ever changes his
plan, it will be in consequence of events, which, at present, neither himself nor his ministers
place among those which are probable. Even the opposition dare not open their lips in favor
of a connection with us, so unpopular would be the topic. It is not, that they think our commerce
unimportant to them. I find that the merchants here set sufficient value on it. But they are
sure of keeping it on their own terms. No better proof can be shown of the security in which
the ministers think themselves on this head, than that they have not thought it worth while
to give us a conference on the subject, though, on my arrival, we exhibited to them our commission,
observed to them that it would expire on the 12th of the next month, and that I had come over
on purpose to see if any arrangements could be made before that time. Of two months which then
remained, six weeks have elapsed without one scrip of a pen, or one word from a minister, except
a vague proposition at an accidental meeting. We availed ourselves even of that, to make another
essay to extort some sort of declaration from the court. But their silence is invincible. But
of all this, as well as of the proceedings in the negotiation with Portugal, information will
be given you by a joint letter from Mr. Adams and myself. The moment is certainly arrived,
when, the plan of this court being out of all doubt, Congress and the States may decide what
their own measures should be.

The Marquis of Lansdowne spoke of you in very friendly terms, and desired me to present his
respects to you, in the first letter I should write. He is thoroughly sensible of the folly
of the present measures of this country, as are a few other characters about him. Dr. Price
is among these, and is particularly disturbed at the present prospect. He acknowledges, however,
that all change is desperate: which weighs the more, as he is intimate with Mr. Pitt. This
small band of friends, favorable as it is, does not pretend to say one word in public on our
subject.

London, April 23, 1786.

Sir,

In another letter of this day, I stated to you what had passed with public characters since
my arrival here. Conversations with private individuals, I thought it best not to mingle with
the contents of that letter. Yet, as some have taken place, which relate to matters within
our instructions, and with persons whose opinions deserve to have some weight, I will take
the liberty of stating them. In a conversation with an ancient and respectable merchant of
this place, such a view of the true state of the commercial connections of America and Great
Britain was presented to him, as induced him to acknowledge they had been mistaken in their
opinions, and to ask, that Mr. Adams and myself would permit the chairman of the committee
of American merchants to call on us. He observed, that the same person happened to be also
chairman of the committee of the whole body of British merchants; and that such was the respect
paid to his person and office, that we might consider what came from him, as coming from the
committees themselves. He called on us at an appointed hour. He was a Mr. Duncan Campbell,
formerly much concerned in the American trade. We entered on the subject of the non-execution
of the late treaty of peace, alleged on both sides. We observed, that the refusal to deliver
the western posts, and the withdrawing American property, contrary to express stipulation,
having preceded what they considered as breaches on our part, were to be considered as the
causes of our proceedings. The obstructions thrown by our legislatures in the way of the recovery
of their debts, were insisted on by him. We observed to him, that the great amount of the debt
from America to Great Britain, and the little circulating coin in the formeer country, rendered
an immediate payment impossible; that time was necessary; that we had been authorized to enter
into explanatory arrangements on this subject; that we had made overtures for the purpose,
which had not been attended to, and that the States had, therefore, been obliged to modify
the article for themselves. He acknowledged the impossibility of immediate payment, the propriety
of an explanatory convention, and said, that they were disposed to allow a reasonable time.
We mentioned the term of five years, including the present; but that judgments might be allowed
immediately, only dividing the execution into equal and annual parts, so that the last should
be levied by the close of the year 1790. This seemed to be quite agreeable to him, and to be
as short a term as would be insisted on by them. Proceeding to the sum to be demanded, we agreed
that the principal, with the interest incurring before and after the war, should be paid; but
as to that incurring during the war, we differed from him. He urged its justice with respect
to themselves, who had laid out of the use of their money during that period. This was his
only topic. We opposed to it all those which circumstances, both public and private, gave rise
to. He appeared to feel their weight, but said the renunciation of this interest was a bitter
pill, and such a one as the merchants here could not swallow. He wished, that no declaration
should be made as to this article: but we observed, that if we entered into explanatory declarations
of the points unfavorable to us, we should expect, as a consideration for this, corresponding
declarations on the parts in our favor. In fact, we supposed his view was to leave this part
of the interest to stand on the general expressions of the treaty, that they might avail themselves,
in individual cases, of the favorable dispositions of debtors or of juries. We proceeded to
the necessity of arrangements of our future commerce, were it only as a means of enabling our
country to pay its debts. We suggested, that they had been contracted while certain modes of
remittance had existed here, which had been an inducement to us to contract these debts. He
said he was not authorized to speak on the subject of the future commerce. He appeared really
and feelingly anxious, that arrangements should be stipulated as to the payment of the old
debts, said he would proceed in that moment to Lord Caermarthen's, and discuss the subject
with him, and that we might expect to hear from him. He took leave, and we have never since
heard from him or any other person on the subject. Congress will judge how far these conversations
should influence their future proceedings, or those of the States.

London, April 25, 1786.

Dear Sir,

Some of the objects of the joint commission, with which we were honored by Congress, called
me to this place about six weeks ago. To-morrow I set out on my return to Paris. With this
nation nothing is done; and it is now decided, that they intend to do nothing with us.

*****

I wrote you, in a former letter, on the subject of a Mr. Paradise, who owns an estate in Virginia
in right of his wife, and who has a considerable sum due to him in our loan office. Since I
came here, I have had opportunities of knowing his extreme personal worth, and his losses by
the late war. He is, from principle, a pure republican, while his father was as warm a tory.
His attachment to the American cause, and his candid warmth, brought him sometimes into altercations
on the subject with his father, and some persons interested in their variance, artfully brought
up this subject of conversation whenever they met. It produced a neglect in the father. He
had already settled on him a sum of money in the funds: but would do no more, and probably
would have undone that, if he could. When remittances from Virginia were forbidden, the profits
of the Virginia estate were carried into our loan office. Paradise was then obliged to begin
to eat his capital in England: from that, to part with conveniences, and to run in debt. His
situation is now distressing; and would be completely relieved, could he receive what is due
to him from our State. He is coming over to settle there. His wife and family will follow him.
I never ask unjust preferences for any body. But if, by any just means, he can be helped to
his money, I own I should be much gratified. The goodness of his heart, his kindness to Americans
before, during, and since the war, the purity of his political and moral character, interest
me in the events impending over him, and which will infallibly be ruinous, if he fails to receive
his money. I ask of you, on his behalf, that in pursuing the path of right, you will become
active for him, instead of being merely quiescent, as you might be, were his merit and his
misfortunes unknown to you.

I have put into the hands of Mr. Fulwar Skipwith for you, a packet containing some catalogues,
which he will forward.

Paris, May 3, 1786.

Sir,

After begging leave to present my respects to your Excellency, on my return to this place,
I take the liberty of offering to your attention some papers, which I found on my arrival here,
written by sundry merchants of L'Orient and others, some of whom are citizens of the United
States, and all of them concerned in the trade between the two countries. This has been carried
on by an exchange of the manufactures and produce of this country, for the produce of that,
and principally for tobacco, which, though, on its arrival here, confined to a single purchaser,
has been received equally from all sellers. In confidence of a continuance of this practice,
the merchants of both countries were carrying on their commerce of exchange. A late contract
by the Farm has, in a great measure, fixed in a single mercantile house the supplies of tobacco
wanted for this country. This arrangement found the established merchants with some tobacco
on hand, some on the seas coming to them, and more still due. By the papers now enclosed, it
seems, that there are six thousand four hundred and eight hogsheads in the single port of L'Orient.
Whether government may interfere, as to articles furnished by the merchants after they had
notice of the contract before mentioned, must depend on principles of policy. But those of
justice seem to urge, that, for commodities furnished before such notice, they should be so
far protected, as that they may wind up, without loss, the transactions in which the new arrangement
found them actually engaged. Your Excellency is the best judge, how far it may be consistent
with the rules of government, to interfere for their relief, and with you, therefore, I beg
leave entirely to rest their interests.

Information lately received, relative to the Barbary States, has suggested, that it might be
expedient, and perhaps necessary for us, to pave the way to arrangements with them, by a previous
application to the Ottoman Porte. Your Excellency's intimate acquaintance with this subject
would render your advice to us equally valuable and desirable. If you would be pleased to permit
me to wait on you, any day or hour which shall be most convenient to yourself, I should be
much gratified by a little conversation with you on this subject.

Paris, May 4, 1786.

Dear Sir,

Your two favors of March the 15th and August the 23, 1785, by Monsieur de la Croix, came to
hand on the 15th of November. His return gives me an opportunity of sending you a copy of the
Nautical Almanacs for 1786, 7, 8, 9. There is no late and interesting publication here, or
I would send it by the same conveyance. With these almanacs, I pack a copy of some Notes I
wrote for Monsieur de Marbois, in the year 1781, of which I had a few printed here. They were
written in haste, and for his private inspection. A few friends having asked copies, I found
it cheaper to print than to write them. They will offer nothing new to you, not even as an
oblation of my friendship for you, which is as old almost as we are ourselves. Mazzei brought
me your favor of April the 27th. I thank you much for your communications. Nothing can be more
grateful at such a distance. It is unfortunate, that most people think the occurrences passing
daily under their eyes, are either known to all the world, or not worth being known. They therefore
do not give them place in their letters. I hope you will be so good as to continue your friendly
information. The proceedings of our public bodies, the progress of the public mind on interesting
questions, the casualties which happen among our private friends, and whatever is interesting
to yourself and family, will always be anxiously received by me. There is one circumstance
in the work you were concerned in, which has not yet come to my knowledge; to wit, How far
westward from Fort Pitt, does the western boundary of Pennsylvania pass, and where does it
strike the Ohio? The proposition you mention from Mr. Anderson, on the purchase of tobacco,
I would have made use of, but that I have engaged the abuses of the tobacco trade on a more
general scale. I confess their redress is by no means certain; but till I see all hope of removing
the evil by the roots desperate, I cannot propose to prune its branches.

I returned but three or four days ago, from a two months' trip to England. I traversed that
country much, and own, both town and country fell short of my expectations. Comparing it with
this, I found a much greater proportion of barrens, a soil, in other parts, not naturally so
good as this, not better cultivated, but better manured, and therefore more productive. This
proceeds from the practice of long leases there, and short ones here. The laboring people here,
are poorer than in England. They pay about one half their produce in rent; the English, in
general, about a third. The gardening, in that country, is the article in which it surpasses
all the earth. I mean their pleasure gardening. This, indeed, went far beyond my ideas. The
city of London, though handsomer than Paris, is not so handsome as Philadelphia. Their architecture
is in the most wretched style I ever saw, not meaning to except America, where it is bad, nor
even Virginia, where it is worse than in any other part of America which I have seen. The mechanical
arts in London are carried to a wonderful perfection. But of these I need not speak, because,
of them my countrymen have unfortunately too many samples before their eyes. I consider the
extravagance which has seized them, as a more baneful evil than toryism was during the war.
It is the more so, as the example is set by the best and most amiable characters among us.
Would a missionary appear, who would make frugality the basis of his religious system, and
go through the land, preaching it up as the only road to salvation, I would join his school,
though not generally disposed to seek my religion out of the dictates of my own reason, and
feelings of my own heart. These things have been more deeply impressed on my mind, by what
I have heard and seen in England. That nation hate us, their ministers hate us, and their King,
more than all other men. They have the impudence to avow this, though they acknowledge our
trade important to them. But they think, we cannot prevent our countrymen from bringing that
into their laps. A conviction of this determines them to make no terms of commerce with us.
They say, they will pocket our carrying trade as well as their own. Our overtures of commercial
arrangements have been treated with a derision, which shows their firm persuasion, that we
shall never unite to suppress their commerce, or even to impede it. I think their hostility
towards us is much more deeply rooted at present, than during the war. In the arts, the most
striking thing I saw there, new, was the application of the principle of the steam-engine to
grist-mills. I saw eight pair of stones which are worked by steam, and there are to be set
up thirty pair in the same house. A hundred bushels of coal, a day, are consumed at present.
I do not know in what proportion the consumption will be increased by the additional gear.

Be so good as to present my respects to Mrs. Page and your family, to W. Lewis, F. Willis,
and their families, and to accept yourself assurances of the sincere regard, with which I am,
Dear Sir, your affectionate friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER VIII.--TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL

TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL.

Paris, May 5, 1786.

Dear Sir,

A visit of two months to England has been the cause of your not hearing from me during that
period. Your letters of February the 3rd, to Mr. Adams and myself, and of February the 4th,
to me, had come to hand before my departure. While I was in London, Mr. Adams received the
letters giving information of Mr. Lambe's arrival at Algiers. In London, we had conferences
with a Tripoline ambassador, now at that court, named Abdrahaman. He asked us thirty thousand
guineas for a peace with his court, and as much for Tunis, for which he said he could answer.
What we were authorized to offer, being to this, but as a drop to a bucket, our conferences
were repeated, only for the purpose of obtaining information. If the demands of Algiers and
Morocco should be proportioned to this, according to their superior power, it is easy to foresee
that the United States will not buy a peace with money. What principally led me to England
was, the information that the Chevalier del Pinto, Portuguese minister at that court, had received
full powers to treat with us. I accordingly went there, and, in the course of six weeks, we
arranged a commercial treaty between our two countries. His powers were only to negotiate,
not to sign. And as I could not wait, Mr. Adams and myself signed, and the Chevalier del Pinto
expected daily the arrival of powers to do the same. The footing on which each has placed the
other, is that of the most favored nation. We wished much to have had some privileges in their
American possessions: but this was not to be effected. The right to import flour into Portugal,
though not conceded by the treaty, we are not without hopes of obtaining.

My journey furnished us occasion to renew our overtures to the court of London; which it was
the more important to do, as our powers to that court were to expire on the 12th of this month.
These overtures were not attended to, and our commission expiring, we made our final report
to Congress; and I suppose this the last offer of friendship, which will ever be made on our
part. The treaty of peace being unexecuted on either part, in important points, each will now
take their own measures for obtaining execution. I think the King, ministers, and nation are
more bitterly hostile to us at present, than at any period of the late war. A like disposition
on our part, has been rising for some time. In what events these things will end, we cannot
foresee. Our countrymen are eager in their passions and enterprise, and not disposed to calculate
their interests against these. Our enemies (for such they are, in fact) have for twelve years
past, followed but one uniform rule, that of doing exactly the contrary of what reason points
out. Having early, during our contest, observed this in the British conduct, I governed myself
by it, in all prognostications of their measures; and I can say, with truth, it never failed
me but in the circumstance of their making peace with us. I have no letters from America of
later date than the new year. Mr. Adams had, to the beginning of February. I am in hopes our
letters will give a new spur to the proposition, for investing Congress with the regulation
of our commerce.

This will be handed you by a Baron Waltersdorf, a Danish gentleman, whom, if you did not already
know, I should take the liberty of recommending to you. You were so kind as to write me, that
you would forward me a particular map, which has not come to hand.

Paris, May 6, 1789.

Sir,

Having been absent in England, for some time past, your favors of February the 27th, March
the 28th, and April the 11th, have not been acknowledged so soon as they should have been.
I am obliged to you, for assisting to make me known to the Rhingrave de Salm and the Marquis
de la Coste, whose reputations render an acquaintance with them desirable. I have not yet seen
either: but expect that honor from the Rhingrave very soon. Your letters to Mr. Jay and Mr.
Van Berkel, received in my absence, will be forwarded by a gentleman who leaves this place
for New York, within a few days. I sent the treaty with Prussia by a gentleman who sailed from
Havre, the 11th of November. The arrival of that vessel in America is not yet known here. Though
the time is not long enough to produce despair, it is sufficiently so to give inquietude lest
it should be lost. This would be a cause of much concern to me: I beg the favor of you to mention
this circumstance to the Baron de Thulemeyer, as an apology for his not hearing from us. The
last advices from America bring us nothing interesting. A principal object of my journey to
London was, to enter into commercial arrangements with Portugal. This has been done almost
in the precise terms of those of Prussia. The English are still our enemies. The spirit existing
there, and rising in America, has a very lowering aspect. To what events it may give birth,
I cannot foresee. We are young, and can survive them; but their rotten machine must crush under
the trial. The animosities of sovereigns are temporary, and may be allayed: but those which
seize the whole body of a people, and of a people, too, who dictate their own measures, produce
calamities of long duration. I shall not wonder to see the scenes of ancient Rome and Carthage
renewed in our day; and if not pursued to the same issue, it may be, because the republic of
modern powers will not permit the extinction of any one of its members. Peace and friendship
with all mankind is our wisest policy: and I wish we may be permitted to pursue it. But the
temper and folly of our enemies may not leave this in our choice. I am happy in our prospect
of friendship with the most estimable powers of Europe, and particularly with those of the
confederacy, of which yours is.

Paris, May 6, 1786.

Sir,

Your favor of November the 23rd came duly to hand. A call to England, soon after its receipt,
has prevented my acknowledging it so soon as I should have done. I am very sensible of the
honor done me by the South Carolina society for promoting and improving agriculture and other
rural concerns, when they were pleased to elect me to be of their body: and I beg leave, through
you, Sir, to convey to them my grateful thanks for this favor. They will find in me, indeed,
but a very unprofitable servant. At present, particularly, my situation is unfavorable to the
desire I feel, of promoting their views. However, I shall certainly avail myself of every occasion,
which shall occur of doing so. Perhaps I may render some service, by forwarding to the society
such new objects of culture, as may be likely to succeed in the soil and climate of South Carolina.
In an infant country, as ours is, these experiments are important. We are probably far from
possessing, as yet, all the articles of culture for which nature has fitted our country. To
find out these, will require abundance of unsuccessful experiments. But if in a multitude of
these, we make one useful acquisition, it repays our trouble. Perhaps it is the peculiar duty
of associated bodies, to undertake these experiments. Under this sense of the views of the
society, and with so little opportunity of being otherwise useful to them, I shall be attentive
to procure for them the seeds of such plants, as they will be so good as to point out to me,
or as shall occur to myself as worthy their notice. I send at present, by Mr. McQueen, some
seeds of a grass, found very useful in the southern parts of Europe, and particularly, and
almost solely, cultivated in Malta. It is called by the names of Sulla, and Spanish St. Foin,
and is the Hedysarum coronarium of Linnaeus. It is usually sown early in autumn. I shall receive
a supply of fresher seed this fall, which I will also do myself the honor of forwarding to
you. I expect, in the same season, from the south of France, some acorns of the cork oak, which
I propose for your society, as I am persuaded they will succeed with you. I observed it to
grow in England, without shelter; not well indeed; but so as to give hopes that it would do
well with you.

Paris, May 7, 1786.

Dear Sir,

On my return from a two months' visit to England, I found here your favor of January the 18th.
This contains the latest intelligence I have from America. Your effects not being then arrived,
gives me anxiety for them, as I think they went in a vessel, which sailed from Havre the 11th
of November. In this vessel, went also the two Mr. Fitzhughs of Virginia, with the Prussian
treaty, our papers relative to the Barbary States, with the despatches for Congress, and letters
which I had been writing to other persons in America for six weeks preceding their departure.
I am obliged to you for the information as to Dr. Franklin's health, in which I feel a great
interest. I concur in opinion with you, that in the present factious division of your State,
an angel from heaven could do no good. I have been sorry, therefore, from the beginning, to
see such time as Dr. Franklin's wasted on so hopeless a business. You have formed a just opinion
of Monroe. He is a man whose soul might be turned wrong side outwards, without discovering
a blemish to the world. I wish with all my heart, Congress may call you into the diplomatic
line, as that seems to have attracted your own desires. It is not one in which you can do any
thing more, than pass the present hour agreeably, without any prospect to future provision.
Perhaps the arrangements with Portugal, by adding to the number of those appointments, may
give Congress an opportunity of doing justice to your own, and to Dr. Franklin's services.
If my wishes could aid you, you have them sincerely. My late return to this place scarcely
enables me to give you any of its news. I have not yet called on M. La Veillard, or seen any
of your acquaintances. The marriage of the ambassador of Sweden with Miss Necker, you have
heard of. Houdon is about taking a wife also. His bust of the General has arrived, and meets
the approbation of those who know the original. Europe enjoys a perfect calm, at present. Perhaps
it may be disturbed by the death of the King of Prussia, which is constantly expected. As yet,
we have no information from the Barbary States, which may enable us to prognosticate the success
of our endeavors to effect a peace in that quarter.

Paris, May 7, 1786.

Dear Sir,

My last to you was of the 11th of October. Soon after that, your favor of the 12th of September
came to hand. My acknowledgment of this is made later than it should have been, by my trip
to England. Your long silence I ascribe to a more pleasing cause, that of devoting your spare
time to one more capable of filling it with happiness, and to whom, as well as to yourself,
I wish all those precious blessings which this change of condition is calculated to give you.

My public letters to Mr. Jay will have apprized you of my journey to England, and of its motives;
and the joint letters of Mr. Adams and myself, of its effects. With respect to Portugal, it
produced arrangements; with respect to England and Barbary, only information. I am quite at
a loss what you will do with England. To leave her in possession of our posts, seems inadmissible;
and yet to take them, brings on a state of things, for which we seem not to be in readiness.
Perhaps a total suppression of her trade, or an exclusion of her vessels from the carriage
of our produce, may have some effect; but I believe not very great. Their passions are too
deeply and too universally engaged in opposition to us. The ministry have found means to persuade
the nation, that they are richer than they were while we participated of their commercial privileges.
We should try to turn our trade into other channels. I am in hopes this country will endeavor
to give it more encouragement. But what will you do with the piratical States? Buy a peace
at their enormous price; force one; or abandon the carriage into the Mediterranean to other
powers? All these measures are disagreeable. The decision rests with you. The Emperor is now
pressing a treaty with us. In a commercial view, I doubt whether it is desirable: but in a
political one, I believe it is. He is now undoubtedly the second power in Europe, and on the
death of the King of Prussia, he becomes the first character. An alliance with him will give
us respectability in Europe, which we have occasion for. Besides, he will be at the head of
the second grand confederacy of Europe, and may at any time serve us with the powers constituting
that. I am pressed on so many hands to recommend Dumas to the patronage of Congress, that I
cannot avoid it. Every body speaks well of him, and his zeal in our cause. Any thing done for
him will gratify this court, and the patriotic party in Holland, as well as some distinguished
individuals. I am induced, from my own feelings, to recommend Colonel Humphreys to your care.
He is sensible, prudent, and honest, and may be very firmly relied on, in any office which
requires these talents.

Paris, May 8, 1786.

Dear Sir,

I have duly received your favor of October the 22nd, and am much gratified by the communications
therein made. It has given me details, which do not enter into the views of my ordinary correspondents,
and which are very entertaining. I experience great satisfaction at seeing my country proceed
to facilitate the intercommunications of its several parts, by opening rivers, canals, and
roads. How much more rational is this disposal of public money, than that of waging war.

Before the receipt of your letter, Morris's contract for sixty thousand hogsheads of tobacco
was concluded with the Farmers General. I have been for some time occupied in endeavoring to
destroy the root of the evils, which the tobacco trade encounters in this country, by making
the ministers sensible, that merchants will not bring a commodity to a market, where but one
person is allowed to buy it; and that so long as that single purchaser is obliged to go to
foreign markets for it, he must pay for it in coin, and not in commodities. These truths have
made their way to the minds of the ministry, insomuch, as to have delayed the execution of
the new lease of the Farms, six months. It is renewed, however, for three years, but so as
not to render impossible a reformation of this great evil. They are sensible of the evil, but
it is so interwoven with their fiscal system, that they find it hazardous to disentangle. The
temporary distress, too, of the revenue, they are not prepared to meet. My hopes, therefore,
are weak, though not quite desperate. When they become so, it will remain to look about for
the best palliative this monopoly can bear. My present idea is, that it will be found in a
prohibition to the Farmers General, to purchase tobacco any where but in France. You will perceive
by this, that my object is to strengthen the connection between this country and my own in
all useful points. I am of opinion, that twenty-three thousand hogsheads of tobacco, the annual
consumption of this country, do not exceed the amount of those commodities, which it is more
advantageous to us to buy here than in England, or elsewhere; and such a commerce would powerfully
reinforce the motives for a friendship from this country towards ours. This friendship we ought
to cultivate closely, considering the present dispositions of England towards us.

I am lately returned from a visit to that country. The spirit of hostility to us has always
existed in the mind of the King, but it has now extended itself through the whole mass of the
people, and the majority in the public councils. In a country, where the voice of the people
influences so much the measures of administration, and where it coincides with the private
temper of the King, there is no pronouncing on future events. It is true, they have nothing
to gain, and much to lose, by a war with us. But interest is not the strongest passion in the
human breast. There are difficult points, too, still unsettled between us. They have not withdrawn
their armies out of our country, nor given satisfaction for the property they brought off.
On our part, we have not paid our debts, and it will take time to pay them. In conferences
with some distinguished mercantile characters, I found them sensible of the impossibility of
our paying these debts at once, and that an endeavor to force universal and immediate payment,
would render debts desperate, which are good in themselves. I think we should not have differed
in the term necessary. We differed essentially in the article of interest. For while the principal,
and interest preceding and subsequent to the war, seem justly due from us, that which accrued
during the war does not. Interest is a compensation for the use of money. Their money, in our
hands, was in the form of lands and negroes. Tobacco, the produce of these lands and negroes
(or, as I may call it, the interest for them), being almost impossible of conveyance to the
markets of consumption, because taken by themselves in its way there, sold during the war at
five or six shillings the hundred. This did not pay taxes, and for tools, and other plantation
charges. A man who should have attempted to remit to his creditor tobacco, for either principal
or interest, must have remitted it three times before one cargo would have arrived safe: and
this from the depredations of their own nation, and often of the creditor himself; for some
of the merchants entered deeply into the privateering business. The individuals who did not,
say they have lost this interest: the debtor replies, that he has not gained it, and that it
is a case where, a loss having been incurred, every one tries to shift it from himself. The
known bias of the human mind from motives of interest should lessen the confidence of each
party in the justice of their reasoning: but it is difficult to say, which of them should make
the sacrifice, both of reason and interest. Our conferences were intended as preparatory to
some arrangement. It is uncertain how far we should have been able to accommodate our opinions.
But the absolute aversion of the government to enter into any arrangement prevented the object
from being pursued. Each country is left to do justice to itself and to the other, according
to its own ideas as to what is past; and to scramble for the future as well as they can: to
regulate their commerce by duties and prohibitions, and perhaps by cannons and mortars; in
which event, we must abandon the ocean, where we are weak, leaving to neutral nations the carriage
of our commodities; and measure with them on land, where they alone can lose. Farewell, then,
all our useful improvements of canals and roads, reformations of laws, and other rational employments.
I really doubt, whether there is temper enough, on either side, to prevent this issue of our
present hatred. Europe is, at this moment, without the appearance of a cloud. The death of
the King of Prussia, daily expected, may raise one.

Paris, May 8,1786.

Dear Sir,

At the time of the receipt of your favor of October the 24th, the contract between the Farmers
General and Mr. Morris, for tobacco, was concluded, and in a course of execution. There was
no room, therefore, to offer the proposals which accompanied your letter. I was, moreover,
engaged in endeavors to have the monopoly, in the purchase of this article, in this country,
suppressed. My hopes on that subject are not desperate, but neither are they flattering. I
consider it as the most effectual means of procuring the full value of our produce, of diverting
our demands for manufactures from Great Britain to this country, to a certain amount, and of
thus producing some equilibrium in our commerce, which at present lies all in the British scale.
It would cement an union with our friends, and lessen the torrent of wealth which we are pouring
into the laps of our enemies. For my part, I think that the trade with Great Britain is a ruinous
one to ourselves; and that nothing would be an inducement to tolerate it, but a free commerce
with their West Indies: and that this being denied to us, we should put a stop to the losing
branch. The question is, whether they are right in their prognostications, that we have neither
resolution nor union enough for this. Every thing I hear from my own country, fills me with
despair as to their recovery from their vassalage to Great Britain. Fashion and folly are plunging
them deeper and deeper into distress: and the legislators of the country becoming debtors also,
there seems no hope of applying the only possible remedy, that of an immediate judgment and
execution. We should try, whether the prodigal might not be restrained from taking on credit
the gewgaw held out to him in one hand, by seeing the keys of a prison in the other.

Paris, May 10,1786.

Dear Sir,

My last to you was of January the 27th. Since that, I have received yours of January the 19th.
Information from other quarters gives me reason to suspect you have in negotiation a very important
change in your situation. You will carry into its execution all my wishes for your happiness.
I hope it will not detach you from a settlement in your own country. I had even entertained
hopes of your settling in my neighborhood: but these were determined by your desiring a plan
of a house for Richmond. However reluctantly I relinquish this prospect, I shall not the less
readily obey your commands, by sending you a plan. Having been much engaged since my return
from England, in answering the letters and despatching other business which had accumulated
during my absence, and being still much engaged, perhaps I may not be able to send the plan
by this conveyance. If I do not send it now, I will surely by the next conveyance after this.
Your Encyclopédie, containing eighteen livraisons, went off last night for Havre, from whence
it will go in a vessel bound to New York. It will be under the care of M. la Croix, a passenger,
who, if he does not find you in New York, will carry it to Virginia, and send it to Richmond.
Another copy, in a separate box, goes for Currie. I pay here all charges to New York. What
may occur afterwards, I desire him to ask either of you or Currie, as either will pay for the
other; or to draw on me for them.

My letters to Mr. Jay will have informed you of the objects which carried me to England: and
that the principal one, the treaty with Portugal, has been accomplished. Though we were unable
to procure any special advantages in that, yet we thought it of consequence to insure our trade
against those particular checks and discouragements, which it has heretofore met with there.
The information as to the Barbary States, which we obtained from Abdrahaman the Tripoline ambassador,
was also given to Mr. Jay. If it be right, and the scale of proportion between those nations,
which we had settled, be also right, eight times the sum required by Tripoli will be necessary
to accomplish a peace with the whole; that is to say, about two hundred and forty thousand
guineas. The continuance of this peace will depend on their idea of our power to enforce it,
and on the life of the particular Dey, or other head of the government, with whom it is contracted.
Congress will, no doubt, weigh these circumstances against the expense and probable success
of compelling a peace by arms. Count d'Estaing having communicated to me verbally some information
as to an experiment formerly made by this country, I shall get him to put it into writing,
and I will forward it to Congress, as it may aid them in their choice of measures. However,
which plan is most eligible can only be known to yourselves, who are on the spot, and have
under your view all the difficulties of both. There is a third measure, that of abandoning
the Mediterranean carriage to other nations.

With respect to England, no arrangements can be taken. The merchants were certainly disposed
to have consented to accommodation, as to the article of debts. I was not certain, when I left
England, that they would relinquish the interest during the war. A letter received since, from
the first character among the American merchants in Scotland, satisfies me they would have
relinquished it, to insure the capital and residue of interest. Would to heaven, all the States,
therefore, would settle a uniform plan. To open the courts to them, so that they might obtain
judgments; to divide the executions into so many equal annual instalments, as that the last
might be paid in the year 1790; to have the payments in actual money; and to include the capital,
and interest preceding and subsequent to the war, would give satisfaction to the world, and
to the merchants in general. Since it is left for each nation to pursue their own measures,
in the execution of the late treaty, may not Congress, with propriety, recommend a mode of
executing that article respecting the debts, and send it to each State to be passed into law?
Whether England gives up the posts or not, these debts must be paid, or our character stained
with infamy among all nations, and through all time. As to the satisfaction for slaves carried
off, it is a bagatelle, which, if not made good before the last instalment becomes due, may
be secured out of that.

I formerly communicated the overtures for a treaty, which had been made by the imperial ambassador.
The instructions from Congress being in their favor, and Mr. Adams's opinion also, I encouraged
them. He expected his full powers when I went to England. Yet I did not think, nor did Mr.
Adams, that this was of importance enough to weigh against the objects of that journey. He
received them soon after my departure, and communicated it to me on my return, asking a copy
of our propositions. I gave him one, but observed, our commission had then but a few days to
run. He desired I should propose to Congress the giving new powers to go on with this, and
said, that, in the mean time, he would arrange with us the plan. In a commercial view, no great
good is to be gained by this. But in a political one, it may be expedient. As the treaty would,
of course, be in the terms of those of Prussia and Portugal, it will give us but little additional
embarrassment, in any commercial regulations we may wish to establish. The exceptions from
these, which the other treaties will require, may take in the treaty with the Emperor. I should
be glad to communicate some answer, as soon as Congress shall have made up their minds on it.
My information to Congress, on the subject of our commercial articles with this country, has
only come down to January the 27th. Whether I shall say any thing on it, in my letter to Mr.
Jay by this conveyance, depends on its not being too early for an appointment I expect hourly
from the Count de Vergennes, to meet him on this and other subjects. My last information was,
that the lease was too far advanced to withdraw from it the article of tobacco, but that a
clause is inserted in it, empowering the King to discontinue it at any time. A discontinuance
is, therefore, the only remaining object, and as even this cannot be effected till the expiration
of the old lease, which is about the end of the present year, I have wished only to stir the
subject, from time to time, so as to keep it alive. This idea led me into a measure proposed
by the Marquis de la Fayette, whose return from Berlin found the matter at that point, to which
my former report to Congress had conducted it. I communicated to him what I had been engaged
on, what were my prospects, and my purpose of keeping the subject just open. He offered his
services with that zeal which commands them on every occasion respecting America. He suggested
to me the meeting two or three gentlemen, well acquainted with this business. We met. They
urged me to propose to the Count de Vergennes, the appointing a committee to take the matter
into consideration. I told them, that decency would not permit me to point out to the Count
de Vergennes the mode by which he should conduct a negotiation, but that I would press again
the necessity of an arrangement, if, whilst that should be operating on his mind, they would
suggest the appointment of a committee. The Marquis offered his services for this purpose.
The consequence was the appointment of a committee, and the Marquis as a member of it. I communicated
to him my papers. He collected other lights wherever he could, and particularly from the gentlemen
with whom we had before concerted, and who had a good acquaintance with the subject. The Marquis
became our champion in the committee, and two of its members, who were of the corps of Farmers
General, entered the lists on the other side. Each gave in memorials. The lease, indeed, was
signed while I was gone to England, but the discussions were, and still are continued in the
committee: from which we derive two advantages; 1. that of showing, that the object is not
to be relinquished; and 2. that of enlightening government, as to its true interest. The Count
de Vergennes is absolutely for it; but it is not in his department. Calonne is his friend,
and in this instance his principle seems to be, Amica veritas, sed magis amicus Plato. An additional
hope is founded in the expectation of a change of the minister of finance. The present one
is under the absolute control of the Farmers General. The committee's views have been somewhat
different from mine. They despair of a suppression of the Farm, and therefore wish to obtain
palliatives, which would coincide with the particular good of this country. I think, that so
long as the monopoly in the sale is kept up, it is of no consequence to us, how they modify
the pill for their own internal relief: but, on the contrary, the worse it remains, the more
necessary it will render a reformation. Any palliative would take from us all those arguments
and friends, that would be satisfied with accommodation. The Marquis, though differing in opinion
from me on this point, has, however, adhered to my principle of absolute liberty or nothing.
In this condition is the matter at this moment. Whether I say any thing on the subject to Mr.
Jay, will depend on my interview with the Count de Vergennes. I doubt whether that will furnish
any thing worth communicating, and whether it will be in time. I therefore state thus much
to you, that you may see the matter is not laid aside.

I must beg leave to recommend Colonel Humphreys to your acquaintance and good offices. He is
an excellent man, an able one, and in need of some provision. Besides former applications to
me in favor of Dumas, the Rhingrave of Salm (the effective minister of the government of Holland,
while their two ambassadors here are ostensible), who is conducting secret arrangements for
them with this court, presses his interests on us. It is evident the two governments make a
point of it. You ask, why they do not provide for him themselves. I am not able to answer the
question, but by a conjecture, that Dumas's particular ambition prefers an appointment from
us. I know all the difficulty of this application, which Congress has to encounter. I see the
reasons against giving him the primary appointment at that court, and the difficulty of his
accommodating himself to a subordinate one. Yet I think something must be done in it, to gratify
this court, of which we must be always asking favors. In these countries, personal favors weigh
more than public interest. The minister who has asked a gratification for Dumas, has embarked
his own feelings and reputation in that demand. I do not think it was discreet, by any means.
But this reflection might perhaps aggravate a disappointment. I know not really what you can
do: but yet hope something will be done. Adieu, my Dear Sir, and believe me to be

yours affectionately,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XVI.--TO JOHN ADAMS, May 11, 1786

TO JOHN ADAMS.

Paris, May 11, 1786.

Dear Sir,

I do myself the honor of enclosing to you, letters which came to hand last night, from Mr.
Lambe, Mr. Carmichael, and Mr. Barclay. By these you will perceive, that our peace is not to
be purchased at Algiers but at a price far beyond our powers. What that would be, indeed, Mr.
Lambe does not say, nor probably does he know. But as he knew our ultimatum, we are to suppose
from his letter, that it would be a price infinitely beyond that. A reference to Congress hereon
seems to be necessary. Till that can be obtained, Mr. Lambe must be idle at Algiers, Carthagena,
or elsewhere. Would he not be better employed in going to Congress? They would be able to draw
from him and Mr. Randall, the information necessary to determine what they will do. And if
they determine to negotiate, they can re-appoint the same, or appoint a new negotiator, according
to the opinion they shall form on their examination. I suggest this to you as my first thoughts;
an ultimate opinion should not be formed till we see Mr. Randall, who may be shortly expected.
In the mean time, should an opportunity occur, favor me with your ideas hereon that we may
be maturing our opinions. I shall send copies of these three letters to Mr. Jay, by the packet
which sails from L'Orient the first of the next month.

Paris, May 22, 1786.

Sir,

When I left this place for England, I had no suspicion that any thing more would be necessary
on my part for your liberation. Being but lately returned, I could not sooner acknowledge the
receipt of your letters of April the 21st and May the 1st. I this day write to M. Desbordes,
to pay the charges necessary for your enlargement, to furnish you with a guinea apiece, and
to take your draft on Mr. Grand for those sums, and the others which he has furnished you at
my request. This being a new case, I am unable to say whether you will be held to repay this
money. Congress will decide on that, to whom I shall send a report of the case, and to whom
you should apply on your return to America, to know whether you are to repay it or not. During
the whole of this long transaction, I have never ceased soliciting your discharge. The evidence
furnished by the Farmers to the ministers, impressed them with a belief that you were guilty.
However, they obtained a remission of all which the King could remit, which was your condemnation
to the galleys, and imprisonment, and the sum in which you were fined. The confiscation belonged
to the Farmers, and the expenses of subsistence and of prosecution were theirs also, and so
could not be remitted by the King. I wish you to be assured of my sensibility for your sufferings,
and of my wishes to have obtained an earlier relief, had it been possible. I shall be glad
if you can have an immediate and safe return to your own country, and there find your families
well, and make those who may be authorized to decide on your case sensible, that these misfortunes
have not been brought on you by any desire of yours, to infringe the laws of the country in
which you have suffered. I enclose herewith your log-book and the other papers desired by you,
and am, Sir,

your most obedient, humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XVIII.--TO JOHN JAY, May 23, 1786

TO JOHN JAY.

Sir,

Paris, May 23, 1786.

Letters received both from Madrid and Algiers, while I was in London, having suggested that
treaties with the States of Barbary would be much facilitated by a previous one with the Ottoman
Porte, it was agreed between Mr. Adams and myself, that on my return, I should consult on this
subject the Count de Vergennes, whose long residence at Constantinople rendered him the best
judge of its expediency. Various circumstances have put it out of my power to consult him,
till to-day. I stated to him the difficulties we were likely to meet with at Algiers; and asked
his opinion, what would be the probable expense of a diplomatic mission to Constantinople,
and what its effect at Algiers. He said that the expense would be very great, for that presents
must be made at that court, and every one would be gaping after them: and that it would not
procure us a peace at Algiers one penny the cheaper. He observed, that the Barbary States acknowledged
a sort of vassalage to the Porte, and availed themselves of that relation, when any thing was
to be gained by it; but that whenever it subjected them to a demand from the Porte, they totally
disregarded it: that money was the sole agent at Algiers, except so far as fear could be induced
also. He cited the present example of Spain, which, though having a treaty with the Porte would
probably be obliged to buy a peace at Algiers, at the expense of upwards of six millions of
livres. I told him, we had calculated from the demands and information of the Tripoline ambassador,
at London, that to make peace with the four Barbary States would cost us between two and three
hundred thousand guineas, if bought with money. The sum did not seem to exceed his expectations.
I mentioned to him, that considering the uncertainty of a peace, when bought, perhaps Congress
might think it more eligible to establish a cruise of frigates in the Mediterranean, and even
to blockade Algiers. He supposed it would require ten vessels, great and small. I observed
to him that Monsieur de Massiac had formerly done it with five: he said it was true, but that
vessels of relief would be necessary. I hinted to him that I thought the English capable of
administering aid to the Algerines. He seemed to think it impossible, on account of the scandal
it would bring on. I asked him what had occasioned the blockade by Monsieur de Massiac: he
said, an infraction of their treaty by the Algerines.

I had a good deal of conversation with him, also, on the situation of affairs between England
and the United States: and particularly, on their refusal to deliver up our posts. I observed
to him, that the obstructions thrown in the way of the recovery of their debts, were the effect,
and not the cause, as they pretended, of their refusal to deliver up the posts; that the merchants
interested in these debts, showed a great disposition to make arrangements with us; that the
article of time we could certainly have settled, and probably that of the interest during the
war: but that, the minister showing no disposition to have these matters arranged, I thought
it a sufficient proof that this was not the true cause of their retaining the posts. He concurred
as to the justice of our requiring time for the payment of our debts; said nothing which showed
a difference of opinion as to the article of interest, and seemed to believe fully, that their
object was to divert the channel of the fur-trade, before they delivered up the posts, and
expressed a strong sense of the importance of that commerce to us. I told him I really could
not foresee what would be the event of this detention; that the situation of the British funds,
and the desire of their minister to begin to reduce the national debt, seemed to indicate that
they could not wish a war. He thought so, but that neither were we in a condition to go to
war. I told him, I was yet uninformed what Congress proposed to do on this subject, but that
we should certainly always count on the good offices of France, and I was sure that the offer
of them would suffice to induce Great Britain to do us justice. He said that surely we might
always count on the friendship of France. I added, that by the treaty of alliance, she was
bound to guaranty our limits to us, as they should be established at the moment of peace. He
said they were so, 'mais qu'il nous etoit nécessaire de les constater.' I told him there was
no question what our boundaries were; that the English themselves admitted they were clear
beyond all question. I feared, however, to press this any further, lest a reciprocal question
should be put to me, and therefore diverted the conversation to another object. This is a sketch
only of a conference which was long. I have endeavored to give the substance, and sometimes
the expressions, where they were material. I supposed it would be agreeable to Congress to
have it communicated to them, in the present undecided state in which these subjects are. I
should add, that an explanation of the transaction of Monsieur de Massiac with the Algerines,
before hinted at, will be found in the enclosed letter from the Count d'Estaing to me, wherein
he gives also his own opinion. The whole is submitted to Congress, as I conceive it my duty
to furnish them with whatever information I can gather, which may throw any light on the subjects
depending before them.

Paris, June 20, 1786.

Dear Sir,

My last to you was of the 5th of May, by Baron Waltersdorff. Since that I have been honored
with yours of April the 13th, and May the 16th and 18th. The present covers letters to Mr.
Lambe and Mr. Randall, informing them that the demands of Algiers for the ransom of our prisoners
and also for peace, are so infinitely beyond our instructions, that we must refer the matter
back to Congress, and therefore praying them to come on immediately. I will beg the favor of
you to forward these letters. The whole of this business, therefore, is suspended till we receive
further orders, except as to Mr. Barclay's mission. Your bills have been received and honored.
The first naming expressly a letter of advice, and none coming, it was refused till the receipt
of your letter to me, in which you mentioned that you had drawn two bills. I immediately informed
Mr. Grand, who thereupon honored the bill.

I have received no public letters of late date. Through other channels, I have collected some
articles of information, which may be acceptable to you.

*****

In a letter of March the 20th, from Dr. Franklin to me, is this passage. 'As to public affairs,
the Congress has not been able to assemble more than seven or eight States during the whole
winter, so the treaty with Prussia remains still unratified, though there is no doubt of its
being done soon, as a full Congress is expected next month. The disposition to furnish Congress
with ample powers augments daily, as people become more enlightened. And I do not remember
ever to have seen, during my long life, more signs of public felicity than appear at present,
throughout these States; the cultivators of the earth, who make the bulk of our nation, have
made good crops, which are paid for at high prices, with ready money; the artisans, too, receive
high wages; and the value of all real estates is augmented greatly. Merchants and shopkeepers,
indeed, complain that there is not business enough. But this is evidently not owing to the
fewness of buyers, but to the too great number of sellers; for the consumption of goods was
never greater, as appears by the dress, furniture, and manner of living, of all ranks of the
people.' His health is good, except as to the stone, which does not grow worse. I thank you
for your attention to my request about the books, which Mr. Barclay writes me he has forwarded
from Cadiz.

Sir,

Paris, June 20,1786.

Having communicated to Mr. Adams the information received, at different times, from yourself,
from Mr. Randall, and Mr. Carmichael, we find that the sum likely to be demanded by Algiers
for the ransom of our prisoners, as well as for peace, is so infinitely beyond our powers,
and the expectations of Congress, that it has become our duty to refer the whole matter back
to them. Whether they will choose to buy a peace, to force one, or to do nothing, will rest
in their pleasure. But that they may have all the information possible to guide them in their
deliberations, we think it important that you should return to them. No time will be lost by
this, and perhaps time maybe gained. It is, therefore, our joint desire, that you repair immediately
to New York, for the purpose of giving to Congress all the information on this subject, which
your journey has enabled you to acquire. You will consider this request as coming from Mr.
Adams as well as myself, as it is by express authority from him, that I join him in it. I am
of opinion, it will be better for you to come to Marseilles and by Paris: because there is
a possibility that fresh orders to us, from Congress, might render it useful that we, also,
should have received from you all possible information on this subject. And perhaps no time
may be lost by this, as it might be long before you would set a passage from Alicant to America.

I am, Sir, your most obedient and most humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XXI.--TO MONSIEUR DE REYNEVAL, June 25, 1786

TO MONSIEUR DE REYNEVAL.

Paris, June 25, 1786.

Sir,

I have received letters from two citizens of the United States, of the names of Geary and Arnold,
informing me, that having for some time past exercised commerce in London, and having failed,
they were obliged to leave that country; that they came over to Dunkirk, and from thence to
Brest, where, one of them having changed his name, the more effectually to elude the search
of his creditors, they were both imprisoned by order of the commandant; whether at the suit
of their creditors, or because one of them changed his name, they are uninformed. But they
are told, that the commandant has sent information of his proceedings to your office. I have
some reason to suppose, their creditors are endeavoring to obtain leave to remove them to England,
where their imprisonment would be perpetual. Unable to procure information elsewhere, I take
the liberty of asking you, whether you know the cause of their imprisonment, and of soliciting
your attention to them, so far as that nothing may take place against them by surprise, and
out of the ordinary course of the law.

Paris, September 27, 1786.

Gentlemen,

The commonwealth of Virginia, in gratitude for the services of Major General the Marquis de
la Fayette, have determined to erect his bust in their Capital. Desirous to place a like monument
of his worth, and of their sense of it, in the country to which they are indebted for his birth,
they have hoped that the city of Paris will consent to become the depository of this second
testimony of their gratitude. Being charged by them with the execution of their wishes, I have
the honor to solicit of Messieurs le Prevot des Marchands et Echevins, on behalf of the city,
their acceptance of a bust of this gallant officer, and that they will be pleased to place
it where, doing most honor to him, it will most gratify the feelings of an allied nation.

It is with true pleasure that I obey the call of that commonwealth, to render just homage to
a character so great in its first developements, that they would honor the close of any other.
Their country covered by a small army against a great one, their exhausted means supplied by
his talents, their enemies finally forced to that spot whither their allies and confederates
were collecting to receive them, and a war which had spread its miseries into the four quarters
of the earth thus reduced to a single point, where one blow should terminate it, and through
the whole, an implicit respect paid to the laws of the land; these are facts which would illustrate
any character, and which fully justify the warmth of those feelings, of which I have the honor,
on this occasion, to be the organ.

It would have been more pleasing to me to have executed this office in person, to have mingled
the tribute of private gratitude with that of my country, and, at the same time, to have had
an opportunity of presenting to your honorable body, the homage of that profound respect which
I have the honor to bear them. But I am withheld from these grateful duties, by the consequences
of a fall, which confine me to my room. Mr. Short, therefore, a citizen of the State of Virginia,
and heretofore a member of its Council of State, will have the honor of delivering you this
letter, together with the resolution of the General Assembly of Virginia. He will have that,
also, of presenting the bust at such time and place, as you will be so good as to signify your
pleasure to receive it. Through him, I beg to be allowed the honor of presenting those sentiments
of profound respect and veneration, with which I am, Gentlemen, your most obedient and most
humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XXIII.--TO COLONEL MONROE, July 9, 1786

TO COLONEL MONROE.

Paris, July 9, 1786.

Dear Sir,

I wrote you last on the 10th of May; since which your favor of May the 11th has come to hand.
The political world enjoys great quiet here. The King of Prussia is still living, but like
the snuff of a candle, which sometimes seems out, and then blazes up again. Some think that
his death will not produce any immediate effect in Europe. His kingdom like a machine, will
go on for some time with the winding up he has given it. The King's visit to Cherbourg has
made a great sensation in England and here. It proves to the world, that it is a serious object
to this country, and that the King commits himself for the accomplishment of it. Indeed, so
many cones have been sunk, that no doubt remains of the practicability of it. It will contain,
as is said, eighty ships of the line, be one of the best harbors in the world, and by means
of two entrances, on different sides, will admit vessels to come in and go out with every wind.
The effect of this, in another war with England, defies calculation. Having no news to communicate,
I will recur to the subjects of your letter of May the 11th.

With respect to the new States, were the question to stand simply in this form, How may the
ultramontane territory be disposed of, so as to produce the greatest and most immediate benefit
to the inhabitants of the maritime States of the Union? the plan would be more plausible, of
laying it off into two or three States only. Even on this view, however, there would still
be something to be said against it, which might render it at least doubtful. But that is a
question, which good faith forbids us to receive into discussion. This requires us to state
the question in its just form, How may the territories of the Union be disposed of, so as to
produce the greatest degree of happiness to their inhabitants? With respect to the maritime
States, little or nothing remains to be done. With respect, then, to the ultramontane States,
will their inhabitants be happiest, divided into States of thirty thousand square miles, not
quite as large as Pennsylvania, or into States of one hundred and sixty thousand square miles
each, that is to say, three times as large as Virginia within the Allegany? They will not only
be happier in States of moderate size, but it is the only way in which they can exist as a
regular society. Considering the American character in general, that of those people particularly,
and the energetic nature of our governments, a State of such extent as one hundred and sixty
thousand square miles, would soon crumble into little ones. These are the circumstances, which
reduce the Indians to such small societies. They would produce an effect on our people, similar
to this. They would not be broken into such small pieces, because they are more habituated
to subordination, and value more a government of regular law. But you would surely reverse
the nature of things, in making small States on the ocean, and large ones beyond the mountains.
If we could, in our consciences, say, that great States beyond the mountains will make the
people happiest, we must still ask, whether they will be contented to be laid off into large
States. They certainly will not: and if they decide to divide themselves, we are not able to
restrain them. They will end by separating from our confederacy, and becoming its enemies.
We had better then look forward, and see what will be the probable course of things. This will
surely be a division of that country into States, of a small, or, at most, of a moderate size.
If we lay them off into such, they will acquiesce; and we shall have the advantage of arranging
them, so as to produce the best combinations of interest. What Congress have already done in
this matter, is an argument the more, in favor of the revolt of those States against a different
arrangement, and of their acquiescence under a continuance of that. Upon this plan, we treat
them as fellow-citizens; they will have a just share in their own government; they will love
us, and pride themselves in an union with us. Upon the other, we treat them as subjects; we
govern them, and not they themselves; they will abhor us as masters, and break off from us
in defiance. I confess to you, that I can see no other turn that these two plans would take.
But I respect your opinion, and your knowledge of the country, too much, to be over-confident
in my own.

I thank you sincerely for your communication, that my not having sooner given notice of the
Arrêts relative to fish, gave discontent to some persons. These are the most friendly offices
you can do me, because they enable me to justify myself, if I am right, or correct myself,
if wrong. If those who thought I might have been remiss, would have written to me on the subject,
I should have admired them for their candor, and thanked them for it: for I have no jealousies
nor resentments at things of this kind, where I have no reason to believe they have been excited
by a hostile spirit; and I suspect no such spirit in a single member of Congress. You know
there were two Arrêts; the first of August the 30th, 1784, the second of the 18th and 25th
of September, 1785. As to the first, it would be a sufficient justification of myself, to say,
that it was in the time of my predecessor, nine months before I came into office, and that
there was no more reason for my giving information of it, when I did come into office, than
of all the other transactions, which preceded that period. But this would seem to lay a blame
on Dr. Franklin for not communicating it, which I am confident he did not deserve. This government
affects a secrecy in all its transactions whatsoever, though they be of a nature not to admit
a perfect secrecy. Their Arrêts respecting the islands go to those islands, and are unpublished
and unknown in France, except in the bureau where they are formed. That of August, 1784, would
probably be communicated to the merchants of the seaport towns also. But Paris having no commercial
connections with them, if any thing makes its way from a seaport town to Paris, it must be
by accident. We have, indeed, agents in these seaports; but they value their offices so little,
that they do not trouble themselves to inform us of what is passing there. As a proof that
these things do not transpire here, nor are easily got at, recollect that Mr. Adams, Dr. Franklin,
and myself were all here on the spot together, from August, 1784, to June, 1785, that is to
say, ten months, and yet not one of us knew of the Arrêt of August, 1784. September the 18th
and 25th, 1785, the second was passed. And here alone I became responsible. I think it was
about six weeks before I got notice of it, that is, in November. On the 20th of that month,
writing to Count de Vergennes on another subject, I took occasion to remonstrate to him on
that. But from early in November, when the Fitzhughs went to America. I had never a confidential
opportunity of writing to Mr. Jay from hence, directly, for several months. In a letter of
December the 14th, to Mr. Jay, I mentioned to him the want of an opportunity to write to him
confidentially, which obliged me at that moment to write by post via London, and on such things
only, as both post-offices were welcome to see. On the 2nd of January, Mr. Bingham setting
out for London, I wrote to Mr. Jay, sending him a copy of my letter to Count de Vergennes,
and stating something, which had passed in conversation on the same subject. I prayed Mr. Bingham
to take charge of the letter, and either to send it by a safe hand, or carry it himself, as
circumstances should render most advisable. I believe he kept it, to carry himself. He did
not sail from London till about the 12th of March, nor arrive in America till the middle of
May. Thus you see, that causes had prevented a letter, which I had written on the 20th of November,
from getting to America till the month of May. No wonder, then, if notice of this Arrêt came
first to you by the way of the West Indies: and, in general, I am confident, that you will
receive notice of the regulations of this country, respecting their islands, by the way of
those islands, before you will from hence. Nor can this be remedied, but by a system of bribery,
which would end in the corruption of your own ministers, and produce no good adequate to the
expense. Be so good as to communicate these circumstances to the persons who you think may
have supposed me guilty of remissness on this occasion.

I will turn to a subject more pleasing to both, and give you my sincere congratulations on
your marriage. Your own dispositions, and the inherent comforts of that state, will insure
you a great addition of happiness. Long may you live to enjoy it, and enjoy it in full measure.
The interest I feel in every one connected with you, will justify my presenting my earliest
respects to the lady, and of tendering her the homage of my friendship. I shall be happy at
all times to be useful to either of you, and to receive your commands. I enclose you the bill
of lading of your Encyclopédie. With respect to the remittance for it, of which you make mention,
I beg you not to think of it. I know, by experience, that on proceeding to make a settlement
in life, a man has need of all his resources; and I should be unhappy, were you to lessen them
by an attention to this trifle. Let it lie till you have nothing else to do with your money.
Adieu, my Dear Sir, and be assured of the esteem with which I am your friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XXIV.--TO JOHN ADAMS, July 11, 1786

TO JOHN ADAMS.

Paris, July 11, 1786.

Dear Sir,

Our instructions relative to the Barbary States having required us to proceed by way of negotiation
to obtain their peace, it became our duty to do this to the best of our power. Whatever might
be our private opinions, they were to be suppressed, and the line marked out to us was to be
followed. It has been so, honestly and zealously. It was, therefore, never material for us
to consult together on the best plan of conduct towards these States. I acknowledge I very,
early thought it would be best to effect a peace through the medium of war. Though it is a
question with which we have nothing to do, yet as you propose some discussion of it, I shall
trouble you with my reasons. Of the four positions laid down in your letter of the 3rd instant,
I agree to the three first, which are, in substance, that the good offices of our friends cannot
procure us a peace, without paying its price, that they cannot materially lessen that price;
and that paying it, we can have the peace in spite of the intrigues of our enemies. As to the
fourth, that the longer the negotiation is delayed, the larger will be the demand; this will
depend on the intermediate captures: if they are many and rich, the price may be raised; if
few and poor, it will be lessened. However, if it is decided, that we shall buy a peace, I
know no reason for delaying the operation, but should rather think it ought to be hastened:
but I should prefer the obtaining it by war.

1. Justice is in favor of this opinion. 2. Honor favors it. 3. It will procure us respect in
Europe; and respect is a safeguard to interest. 4. It will arm the federal head with the safest
of all the instruments of coercion over its delinquent members, and prevent it from using what
would be less safe. I think, that so far you go with me. But in the next steps we shall differ.
5. I think it least expensive. 6. Equally effectual. I ask a fleet of one hundred and fifty
guns, the one half of which shall be in constant cruise. This fleet, built, manned, and victualled
for six months, will cost four hundred and fifty thousand pounds sterling. Its annual expense
will be three hundred pounds sterling a gun, including every thing: this will be forty-five
thousand pounds sterling a year. I take British experience for the basis of my calculation:
though we know, from our own experience, that we can do in this way for pounds lawful, what
costs them pounds sterling. Were we to charge all this to the Algerine war, it would amount
to little more than we must pay if we buy peace. But as it is proper and necessary, that we
should establish a small marine force (even were we to buy a peace from the Algerines), and
as that force, laid up in our dock-yard, would cost us half as much annually as if kept in
order for service, we have a right to say, that only twenty-two thousand and five hundred pounds
sterling, per annum, should be charged to the Algerine war. 6. It will be as effectual. To
all the mismanagements of Spain and Portugal, urged to show that war against those people is
ineffectual, I urge a single fact to prove the contrary, where there is any management. About
forty years ago, the Algerines having broke their treaty with France, this court sent Monsieur
de Massiac, with one large and two small frigates: he blockaded the harbor of Algiers three
months, and they subscribed to the terms he proposed. If it be admitted, however, that war,
on the fairest prospects, is still exposed to uncertainties, I weigh against this the greater
uncertainty of the duration of a peace bought with money, from such a people, from a Dey eighty
years old, and by a nation who, on the hypothesis of buying peace, is to have no power on the
sea to enforce an observance of it.

So far I have gone on the supposition, that the whole weight of this war would rest on us.
But, 1. Naples will join us. The character of their naval minister (Acton), his known sentiments
with respect to the peace Spain is officiously trying to make for them, and his dispositions
against the Algerines, give the best grounds to believe it. 2. Every principle of reason assures,us,
that Portugal will join us. I state this as taking for granted, what all seem to believe, that
they will not be at peace with Algiers. I suppose, then, that a convention might be formed
between Portugal, Naples, and the United States, by which the burthen of the war might be quotaed
on them, according to their respective wealth; and the term of it should be, when Algiers should
subscribe to a peace with all three on equal terms. This might be left open for other nations
to accede to, and many, if not most of the powers of Europe (except France, England, Holland,
and Spain, if her peace be made), would sooner or later enter into the confederacy, for the
sake of having their peace with the piratical States guarantied by the whole. I suppose, that,
in this case, our proportion of force would not be the half of what I first calculated on.

These are the reasons, which have influenced my judgment on this question. I give them to you,
to show you that I am imposed on by a semblance of reason at least; and not with an expectation
of their changing your opinion. You have viewed the subject, I am sure, in all its bearings.
You have weighed both questions, with all their circumstances. You make the result different
from what I do. The same facts impress us differently. This is enough to make me suspect an
error in my process of reasoning, though I am not able to detect it. It is of no consequence;
as I have nothing to say in the decision, and am ready to proceed heartily on any other plan,
which may be adopted, if my agency should be thought useful. With respect to the dispositions
of the States, I am utterly uninformed. I cannot help thinking, however, that on a view of
all the circumstances, they might be united in either of the plans.

Paris, August 11, 1786.

Sir,

Since the date of my last, which was of July the 8th, I have been honored with the receipt
of yours of June the 16th. I am to thank you, on the part of the minister of Geneva, for the
intelligence it contained on the subject of Gallatin, whose relations will be relieved by the
receipt of it.

The enclosed intelligence, relative to the instructions of the court of London to Sir Guy Carleton,
came to me through the Count de la Touche and Marquis de la Fayette. De la Touche is a director
under the Marechal de Castries, minister for the marine department, and possibly receives his
intelligence from him, and he from their ambassador at London. Possibly, too, it might be fabricated
here. Yet weighing the characters of the ministry of St. James's and Versailles, I think the
former more capable of giving such instructions, than the latter of fabricating them for the
small purposes the fabrication could answer.

The Gazette of France, of July the 28th, announces the arrival of Peyrouse at Brazil, that
he was to touch at Otaheite, and proceed to California, and still further northwardly. This
paper, as you well know, gives out such facts as the court are willing the world should be
possessed of. The presumption is, therefore, that they will make an establishment of some sort
on the northwest coast of America.

I trouble you with the copy of a letter from Schweighauser and Dobree, on a subject with which
I am quite unacquainted. Their letter to Congress of November the 30th, 1780, gives their state
of the matter. How far it be true and just, can probably be ascertained from Dr. Franklin,
Dr. Lee, and other gentlemen now in America. I shall be glad to be honored with the commands
of Congress on this subject. I have inquired into the state of the arms, mentioned in their
letter to me. The principal articles were about thirty thousand bayonets, fifty thousand gunlocks,
thirty cases of arms, twenty-two cases of sabres, and some other things of little consequence.
The quay at Nantes having been overflowed by the river Loire, the greatest part of these arms
was under water, and they are now, as I am informed, a solid mass of rust, not worth the expense
of throwing them out of the warehouse, much less that of storage. Were not their want of value
a sufficient reason against reclaiming the property of these arms, it rests with Congress to
decide, whether other reasons are not opposed to this reclamation. They were the property of
a sovereign body, they were seized by an individual, taken cognizance of by a court of justice,
and refused, or at least not restored by the sovereign, within whose State they had been arrested.
These are circumstances which have been mentioned to me. Doctor Franklin, however, will be
able to inform Congress, with precision, as to what passed on this subject. If the information
I have received be any thing like the truth, the discussion of this matter can only be with
the court of Versailles. It would be very delicate, and could have but one of two objects;
either to recover the arms, which are not worth receiving, or to satisfy us on the point of
honor. Congress will judge how far the latter may be worth pursuing against a particular ally,
and under actual circumstances. An instance, too, of acquiescence on our part under a wrong,
rather than disturb our friendship by altercations, may have its value in some future case.
However, I shall be ready to do in this what Congress shall be pleased to direct.

I enclose the despatches relative to the Barbary negotiation, received since my last. It is
painful to me to overwhelm Congress and yourself continually with these voluminous papers.
But I have no right to suppress any part of them, and it is one of those cases, where, from
a want of well digested information, we must be contented to examine a great deal of rubbish,
in order to find a little good matter.

The gazettes of Leyden and France, to the present date, accompany this, which, for want of
direct and safe opportunities, I am obliged to send by an American gentleman, by the way of
London. The irregularity of the French packets has diverted elsewhere the tide of passengers
who used to furnish me occasions of writing to you, without permitting my letters to go through
the post-office. So that when the packets go now, I can seldom write by them.

     [The annexed is a translation of the paper referred to in
     the preceding letter, on the subject of the instructions
     given to Sir Guy Carleton.]

An extract of English political news, concerning North America, July 14th, 1786.

General Carleton departs in a few days with M. de la Naudiere, a Canadian gentleman. He has
made me acquainted with the Indian Colonel Joseph Brandt. It is certain that he departs with
the most positive instructions to distress the Americans as much as possible, and to create
them enemies on all sides.

Colonel Brandt goes loaded with presents for himself, and for several chiefs of the tribes
bordering on Canada. It would be well for the Americans to know in time, that enemies are raised
against them, in order to derange their system of government, and to add to the confusion which
already exists in it. The new possessions of England will not only gain what America shall
lose, but will acquire strength in proportion to the weakening of the United States.

Sooner or later, the new States which are forming will place themselves under the protection
of England, which can always communicate with them through Canada; and which, in case of future
necessity, can harass the United States on one side, by her shipping, and on the other, by
her intrigues. This system has not yet come to maturity, but it is unfolded, and we may rely
upon the instructions given to Colonel Brandt.

LETTER XXVI.--TO COLONEL MONROE, August 11, 1786

TO COLONEL MONROE.

Paris, August 11, 1786.

Dear Sir,

I wrote you last on the 9th of July; and since that, have received yours of the 16th of June,
with the interesting intelligence it contained. I was entirely in the dark as to the progress
of that negotiation, and concur entirely in the views you have taken of it The difficulty on
which it hangs, is a sine qua non with us. It would be to deceive them and ourselves, to suppose
that an amity can be preserved, while this right is withheld. Such a supposition would argue,
not only an ignorance of the people to whom this is most interesting, but an ignorance of the
nature of man, or an inattention to it. Those who see but halfway into our true interest, will
think that that concurs with the views of the other party. But those who see it in all its
extent, will be sensible that our true interest will be best promoted, by making all the just
claims of our fellow-citizens, wherever situated, our own, by urging and enforcing them with
the weight of our whole influence, and by exercising in this, as in every other instance, a
just government in their concerns, and making common cause, even where our separate interest
would seem opposed to theirs. No other conduct can attach us together; and on this attachment
depends our happiness.

The King of Prussia still lives, and is even said to be better. Europe is very quiet at present.
The only germ of dissension which shows itself at present, is in the quarter of Turkey. The
Emperor, the Empress, and the Venetians seem all to be picking at the Turks. It is not probable,
however, that either of the two first will do any thing to bring on an open rupture, while
the King of Prussia lives.

You will perceive by the letters I enclose to Mr. Jay, that Lambe, under the pretext of ill
health, declines returning either to Congress, Mr. Adams, or myself. This circumstance makes
me fear some malversation. The money appropriated to this object being in Holland, and having
been always under the care of Mr. Adams, it was concerted between us that all the drafts should
be on him. I know not, therefore, what sums may have been advanced to Lambe; I hope, however,
nothing great. I am persuaded that an angel sent on this business, and so much limited in his
terms, could have done nothing. But should Congress propose to try the line of negotiation
again, I think they will perceive that Lambe is not a proper agent. I have written to Mr. Adams
on the subject of a settlement with Lambe. There is little prospect of accommodation between
the Algerines, and the Portuguese and Neapolitans. A very valuable capture too, lately made
by them on the Empress of Russia, bids fair to draw her on them. The probability is therefore,
that these three nations will be at war with them, and the possibility is that could we furnish
a couple of frigates, a convention might be formed with those powers, establishing a perpetual
cruise on the coast of Algiers, which would bring them to reason. Such a convention being left
open to all powers willing to come into it, should have for its object a general peace, to
be guarantied to each, by the whole. Were only two or three to begin a confederacy of this
kind, I think every power in Europe would soon fall into it, except France, England, and perhaps
Spain and Holland. Of these there is only England who would give any real aid to the Algerines.
Morocco, you perceive, will be at peace with us. Were the honor and advantage of establishing
such a confederacy out of the question, yet the necessity that the United States should have
some marine force, and the happiness of this, as the ostensible cause for beginning it, would
decide on its propriety. It will be said, there is no money in the treasury. There never will
be money in the treasury till the confederacy shows its teeth. The States must see the rod;
perhaps it must be felt by some one of them. I am persuaded, all of them would rejoice to see
every one obliged to furnish its contributions. It is not the difficulty of furnishing them,
which beggars the treasury, but the fear that others will not furnish as much. Every rational
citizen must wish to see an effective instrument of coercion, and should fear to see it on
any other element than the water. A naval force can never endanger our liberties, nor occasion
bloodshed: a land force would do both. It is not in the choice of the States, whether they
will pay money to cover their trade against the Algerines. If they obtain a peace by negotiation,
they must pay a great sum of money for it; if they do nothing, they must pay a great sum of
money, in the form of insurance; and in either way, as great a one as in the way of force,
and probably less effectual.

I look forward with anxiety to the approaching moment of your departure from Congress. Besides
the interest of the confederacy and of the State, I have a personal interest in it. I know
not to whom I may venture confidential communications, after you are gone.

Paris, August 13,1786.

Dear Sir

Your favors of January the 10th and February the 10th, came to hand on the 20th and 23rd of
May. I availed myself of the first opportunity which occurred, by a gentleman going to England,
of sending to Mr. Joddrel a copy of the Notes on our country! with a line informing him, that
it was you who had emboldened me to take that liberty. Madison, no doubt, informed you of the
reason why I had sent only a single copy to Virginia. Being assured by him, that they will
not do the harm I had apprehended, but on the contrary may do some good, I propose to send
thither the copies remaining on hand, which are fewer than I had intended. But of the numerous
corrections they need, there are one or two so essential, that I must have them made, by printing
a few new leaves, and substituting them for the old. This will be done while they are engraving
a map which I have constructed, of the country from Albemarle sound to Lake Erie, and which
will be inserted in the book. A bad French translation which is getting out here, will probably
oblige me to publish the original more freely; which it did not deserve, nor did I intend.
Your wishes, which are laws to me, will justify my destining a copy for you, otherwise, I should
as soon have thought of sending you a horn-book; for there is no truth in it which is not familiar
to you, and its errors I should hardly have proposed to treat you with.

Immediately on the receipt of your letter, I wrote to a correspondent at Florence to inquire
after the family of Tagliaferro, as you desired. I received his answer two days ago, a copy
of which I now enclose. The original shall be sent by some other occasion. I will have the
copper-plate immediately engraved. This may be ready within a few days, but the probability
is, that I shall be long getting an opportunity of sending it to you, as these rarely occur.
You do not mention the size of the plate, but presuming it is intended for labels for the inside
of books, I shall have it made of a proper size for that. I shall omit the word agisos, according
to the license you allow me, because I think the beauty of a motto is to condense much matter
in as few words as possible. The word omitted will be supplied by every reader.

The European papers have announced, that the Assembly of Virginia were occupied on the revisal
of their code of laws. This, with some other similar intelligence, has contributed much to
convince the people of Europe, that what the English papers are constantly publishing of our
anarchy, is false; as they are sensible that such a work is that of a people only, who are
in perfect tranquillity. Our act for freedom of religion is extremely applauded. The ambassadors
and ministers of the several nations of Europe, resident at this court, have asked of me copies
of it, to send to their sovereigns, and it is inserted at full length in several books now
in the press; among others, in the new Encyclopédie. I think it will produce considerable good
even in these countries, where ignorance, superstition, poverty, and oppression of body and
mind, in every form, are so firmly settled on the mass of the people, that their redemption
from them can never be hoped. If all the sovereigns of Europe were to set themselves to work,
to emancipate the minds of their subjects from their present ignorance and prejudices, and
that, as zealously as they now endeavor the contrary, a thousand years would not place them
on that high ground, on which our common people are now setting out. Ours could not have been
so fairly placed under the control of the common sense of the people, had they not been separated
from their parent stock, and kept from contamination, either from them, or the other people
of the old world, by the intervention of so wide an ocean. To know the worth of this, one must
see the want of it here. I think by far the most important bill in our whole code, is that
for the diffusion of knowledge among the people. No other sure foundation can be devised for
the preservation of freedom and happiness. If any body thinks, that kings, nobles, or priests
are good conservators of the public happiness, send him here. It is the best school in the
universe to cure him of that folly. He will see here, with his own eyes, that these descriptions
of men are an abandoned confederacy against the happiness of the mass of the people. The omnipotence
of their effect cannot be better proved, than in this country particularly, where, notwithstanding
the finest soil upon earth, the finest climate under heaven, and a people of the most benevolent,
the most gay and amiable character of which the human form is susceptible; where such a people,
I say, surrounded by so many blessings from nature, are loaded with misery by kings, nobles,
and priests, and by them alone. Preach, my dear Sir, a crusade against ignorance; establish
and improve the law for educating the common people. Let our countrymen know, that the people
alone can protect us against these evils, and that the tax which will be paid for this purpose,
is not more than the thousandth part of what will be paid to kings, priests, and nobles, who
will rise up among us if we leave the people in ignorance. The people of England, I think,
are less oppressed than here. But it needs but half an eye to see, when among them, that the
foundation is laid in their dispositions for the establishment of a despotism. Nobility, wealth,
and pomp are the objects of their admiration. They are by no means the free-minded people,
we suppose them in America. Their learned men, too, are few in number, and are less learned,
and infinitely less emancipated from prejudice, than those of this country. An event, too,
seems to be preparing, in the order of things, which will probably decide the fate of that
country. It is no longer doubtful, that the harbor of Cherbourg will be complete, that it will
be a most excellent one, and capacious enough to hold the whole navy of France. Nothing has
ever been wanting to enable this country to invade that, but a naval force conveniently stationed
to protect the transports. This change of situation must oblige the English to keep up a great
standing army, and there is no King, who, with sufficient force, is not always ready to make
himself absolute. My paper warns me, it is time to recommend myself to the friendly recollection
of Mrs. Wythe, of Colonel Taliaferro and his family, and particularly of Mr. R. T. and to assure
you of the affectionate esteem, with which I am,

Dear Sir, your friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XXVIII.--TO MRS. COSWAY, October 12, 1786

TO MRS. COSWAY.

Paris, October 12, 1786.

My Dear Madam,

Having performed the last sad office of handing you into your carriage, at the pavillion de
St. Denis, and seen the wheels get actually into motion, I turned on my heel and walked, more
dead than alive, to the opposite door, where my own was awaiting me. Mr. Danquerville was missing.
He was sought for, found, and dragged down stairs. We were crammed into the carriage, like
recruits for the Bastille, and not having soul enough to give orders to the coachman, he presumed
Paris our destination, and drove off. After a considerable interval, silence was broke, with
a 'Je suis vraiment affligé du depart de ces bons gens.' This was a signal for mutual confession
of distress. We began immediately to talk of Mr. and Mrs. Cosway, of their goodness, their
talents, their amiability; and though we spoke of nothing else, we seemed hardly to have entered
into the matter, when the coachman announced the rue St. Denis, and that we were opposite Mr.
Danquerville's. He insisted on descending there, and traversing a short passage to his lodgings.
I was carried home. Seated by my fire-side, solitary and sad, the following dialogue took place
between my Head and my Heart.

Head. Well, friend, you seem to be in a pretty trim.

Heart. I am indeed the most wretched of all earthly beings. Overwhelmed with grief, every fibre
of my frame distended beyond its natural powers to bear, I would willingly meet whatever catastrophe
should leave me no more to feel, or to fear.

Head. These are the eternal consequences of your warmth and precipitation. This is one of the
scrapes into which you are ever leading us. You confess your follies, indeed; but still you
hug and cherish them; and no reformation can be hoped, where there is no repentance.

Heart. Oh, my friend! this is no moment to upbraid my foibles. I am rent into fragments by
the force of my grief! If you have any balm, pour it into my wounds; if none, do not harrow
them by new torments. Spare me in this awful moment! At any other, I will attend with patience
to your admonitions.

Head. On the contrary, I never found that the moment of triumph, with you, was the moment of
attention to my admonitions. While suffering under your follies, you may perhaps be made sensible
of them; but, the paroxysm over, you fancy it can never return. Harsh, therefore, as the medicine
may be, it is my office to administer it. You will be pleased to remember, that when our friend
Trumbull used to be telling us of the merits and talents of these good people, I never ceased
whispering to you that we had no occasion for new acquaintances; that the greater their merit
and talents, the more dangerous their friendship to our tranquillity, because the regret at
parting would be greater.

Heart. Accordingly, Sir, this acquaintance was not the consequence of my doings. It was one
of your projects, which threw us in the way of it. It was you, remember, and not I, who desired
the meeting at Legrand and Motinos. I never trouble myself with domes nor arches. The Halle
aux bleds might have rotted down, before I should have gone to see it. But you, forsooth, who
are eternally getting us to sleep with your diagrams and crotchets, must go and examine this
wonderful piece of architecture; and when you had seen it, oh! it was the most superb thing
on earth! What you had seen there was worth all you had yet seen in Paris! I thought so too.
But I meant it of the lady and gentleman to whom we had been presented; and not of a parcel
of sticks and chips put together in pens. You then, Sir, and not I, have been the cause of
the present distress.

Head. It would have been happy for you, if my diagrams and crotchets had gotten you to sleep
on that day, as you are pleased to say they eternally do. My visit to Legrand and Motinos,
had public utility for its object. A market is to be built in Richmond. What a commodious plan
is that of Legrand and Motinos; especially, if we put on it the noble dome of the Halle aux
bleds. If such a bridge as they showed us, can be thrown across the Schuylkill, at Philadelphia,
the floating bridges taken up, and the navigation of that river opened, what a copious resource
will be added of wood and provisions, to warm and feed the poor of that city? While I was occupied
with these objects, you were dilating with your new acquaintances, and contriving how to prevent
a separation from them. Every soul of you had an engagement for the day. Yet all these were
to be sacrificed, that you might dine together. Lying messengers were to be despatched into
every quarter of the city, with apologies for your breach of engagement. You, particularly,
had the effrontery to send word to the Duchess Danville, that on the moment we were setting
out to dine with her, despatches came to hand, which required immediate attention. You wanted
me to invent a more ingenious excuse; but I knew you were getting into a scrape, and I would
have nothing to do with it. Well; after dinner to St. Cloud, from St. Cloud to Ruggieri's,
from Ruggieri's to Krumfoltz; and if the day had been as long as a Lapland summer day, you
would still have contrived means among you to have filled it.

Heart. Oh! my dear friend, how you have revived me, by recalling to mind the transactions of
that day! How well I remember them all, and that when I came home at night, and looked back
to the morning, it seemed to have been a month agone. Go on, then, like a kind comforter, and
paint to me the day we went to St. Germains. How beautiful was every object! the Port de Reuilly,
the hills along the Seine, the rainbows of the machine of Marly, the terras of St. Germains,
the chateaux, the gardens, the statues of Marly, the pavillion of Lucienne. Recollect, too,
Madrid, Bagatelle, the King's garden, the Desert. How grand the idea excited by the remains
of such a column. The spiral staircase, too, was beautiful. Every moment was filled with something
agreeable. The wheels of time moved on with a rapidity, of which those of our carriage gave
but a faint idea. And yet, in the evening, when one took a retrospect of the day, what a mass
of happiness had we travelled over! Retrace all those scenes to me, my good companion, and
I will forgive the unkindness with which you were chiding me. The day we went to St. Germains
was a little too warm, I think; was it not?

Head. Thou art the most incorrigible of all the beings that ever sinned! I reminded you of
the follies of the first day, intending to deduce from thence some useful lessons for you,
but instead of listening to them, you kindle at the recollection, you retrace the whole series
with a fondness, which shows you want nothing but the opportunity, to act it over again. I
often told you, during its course, that you were imprudently engaging your affections, under
circumstances that must cost you a great deal of pain; that the persons, indeed, were of the
greatest merit, possessing good sense, good humor, honest hearts, honest manners, and eminence
in a lovely art; that the lady had, moreover, qualities and accomplishments belonging to her
sex, which might form a chapter apart for her; such as music, modesty, beauty, and that softness
of disposition, which is the ornament of her sex, and charm of ours: but that all these considerations
would increase the pang of separation, that their stay here was to be short; that you rack
our whole system when you are parted from those you love, complaining that such a separation
is worse than death, inasmuch as this ends our sufferings, whereas that only begins them; and
that the separation would, in this instance, be the more severe, as you, would probably never
see them again.

Heart. But they told me, they would come back again the next year.

Head. But in the mean time, see what you surfer: and their return, too, depends on so many
circumstances, that, if you had a grain of prudence, you would not count upon it. Upon the
whole, it is improbable, and therefore you should abandon the idea of ever seeing them again.

Heart. May Heaven abandon me, if I do!

Head. Very well. Suppose, then, they come back. They are to stay two months, and when these
are expired, what is to follow? Perhaps you flatter yourself they may come to America?

Heart. God only knows what is to happen. I see nothing impossible in that supposition: and
I see things wonderfully contrived sometimes to make us happy. Where could they find such objects
as in America, for the exercise of their enchanting art; especially the lady, who paints landscapes
so inimitably? She wants only subjects worthy of immortality, to render her pencil immortal.
The Falling Spring, the Cascade of Niagara, the Passage of the Potomac through the Blue Mountains,
the Natural Bridge; it is worth a voyage across the Atlantic to see these objects; much more
to paint, and make them, and thereby ourselves, known to all ages. And our own dear Monticello;
where has nature spread so rich a mantle under the eye?--mountains, forests rocks, rivers.
With what majesty do we there ride above the storms! How sublime to look down into the workhouse
of nature to see her clouds, hail, snow, rain, thunder, all fabricated at our feet! and the
glorious sun when rising as if out of a distant water, lust gilding the tops of the mountains,
and giving life to all nature! 1 hope in God, no circumstance may ever make either seek an
asylum from grief! With what sincere sympathy I would open every cell of my composition, to
receive the effusion of their woes!

I would pour my tears into their wounds; and if a drop of balm could be found on the top of
the Cordilleras, or at the remotest sources of the Missouri, I would go thither myself to seek
and to bring it. Deeply practised in the school of affliction, the human heart knows no joy
which I have not lost, no sorrow of which I have not drank! Fortune can present no grief of
unknown form to me! Who, then, can so softly bind up the wound of another, as he who has felt
the same wound himself? But Heaven forbid, they should ever know a sorrow! Let us turn over
another leaf, for this has distracted me.

Head. Well. Let us put this possibility to trial, then, on another point. When you consider
the character which is given of our country by the lying newspapers of London, and their credulous
copyers in other countries; when you reflect, that all Europe is made to believe we are a lawless
banditti, in a state of absolute anarchy, cutting one another's throats, and plundering without
distinction, how could you expect, that any reasonable creature would venture among us?

Heart. But you and I know, that all this is false: that there is not a country on earth, where
there is greater tranquillity; where the laws are milder, or better obeyed; where every one
is more attentive to his own business, or meddles less with that of others; where strangers
are better received, more hospitably treated, and with a more sacred respect.

Head. True, you and I know this, but your friends do not know it.

Heart. But they are sensible people, who think for themselves. They will ask of impartial foreigners,
who have been among us, whether they saw or heard on the spot any instance of anarchy. They
will judge, too, that a people occupied, as we are, in opening rivers, digging navigable canals,
making roads, building public schools, establishing academies, erecting busts and statues to
our great men, protecting religious freedom, abolishing sanguinary punishments, reforming and
improving our laws in general; they will judge, I say, for themselves, whether these are not
the occupations of a people at their ease; whether this is not better evidence of our true
state, than a London newspaper, hired to lie, and from which no truth can ever be extracted,
but by reversing every thing it says.

Head. I did not begin this lecture, my friend, with a view to learn from you what America is
doing. Let us return, then, to our point. I wish to make you sensible how imprudent it is to
place your affections without reserve on objects you must so soon lose, and whose loss, when
it comes, must cost you such severe pangs. Remember the last night. You knew your friends were
to leave Paris to-day. This was enough to throw you into agonies. All night you tossed us from
one side of the bed to the other; no sleep, no rest. The poor Crippled wrist, too, never left
one moment in the same position; now up, now down, now here, now there; was it to be wondered
at, if its pains returned? The surgeon then was to be called, and to be rated as an ignoramus,
because he could not divine the cause of this extraordinary change. In fine, my friend, you
must mend your manners. This is not a world to live at random in, as you do. To avoid those
eternal distresses, to which you are for ever exposing us, you must learn to look forward before
you take a step, which may interest our peace. Every thing in this world is matter of calculation.
Advance, then, with caution, the balance in your hand. Put into one scale the pleasures which
any object may offer; but put fairly into the other the pains which are to follow, and see
which preponderates. The making an acquaintance is not a matter of indifference. When a new
one is proposed to you, view it all round. Consider what advantages it presents, and to what
inconveniences it may expose you. Do not bite at the bait of pleasure, till you know there
is no hook beneath it. The art of life is the art of avoiding pain; and he is the best pilot,
who steers clearest of the rocks and shoals with which it is beset. Pleasure is always before
us; but misfortune is at our side: while running after that, this arrests us. The most effectual
means of being secure against pain, is to retire within ourselves, and to suffice for our own
happiness. Those which depend on ourselves, are the only pleasures a wise man will count on;
for nothing is ours, which another may deprive us of. Hence the inestimable value of intellectual
pleasures. Ever in our power, always leading us to something new, never cloying, we ride serene
and sublime above the concerns of this mortal world, contemplating truth and nature, matter
and motion, the laws which bind up their existence, and that Eternal Being, who made and bound
them up by those laws. Let this be our employ. Leave the bustle and tumult of society to those
who have not talents to occupy themselves without them. Friendship is but another name for
an alliance with the follies and the misfortunes of others. Our own share of miseries is sufficient:
why enter then as volunteers into those of another? Is there so little gall poured into our
cup, that we must heed help to drink that of our neighbor? A friend dies, or leaves us: we
feel as if a limb was cut off. He is sick: we must watch over him, and participate of his pains.
His fortune is shipwrecked: ours must be laid under contribution. He loses a child, a parent,
or a partner: we must mourn the loss as if it were our own.

Heart. And what more sublime delight, than to mingle tears with one whom the hand of Heaven
hath smitten! to watch over the bed of sickness, and to beguile its tedious and its painful
moments! to share our bread with one to whom misfortune has left none! This world abounds indeed
with misery: to lighten its burthen, we must divide it with one another. But let us now try
the virtue of your mathematical balance, and as you have put into one scale the burthens of
friendship, let me put its comforts into the other. When languishing then under disease, how
grateful is the solace of our friends! how are we penetrated with their assiduities and attentions!
how much are we supported by their encouragements and kind offices! When Heaven has taken from
us some object of our love, how sweet is it to have a bosom whereon to recline our heads, and
into which we may pour the torrent of our tears! Grief, with such a comfort, is almost a luxury!
In a life where we are perpetually exposed to want and accident, yours is a wonderful proposition,
to insulate ourselves, to retire from all aid, and to wrap ourselves in the mantle of self-sufficiency!
For assuredly nobody will care for him, who cares for nobody. But friendship is precious, not
only in the shade, but in the sunshine of life: and thanks to a benevolent arrangement of things,
the greater part of life is sunshine. I will recur for proof to the days we have lately passed.
On these, indeed, the sun shone brightly! How gay did the face of nature appear! Hills, valleys,
chateaux, gardens, rivers, every object wore its liveliest hue! Whence did they borrow it?
From the presence of our charming companion. They were pleasing, because she seemed pleased.
Alone, the scene would have been dull and insipid: the participation of it with her gave it
relish. Let the gloomy monk, sequestered from the world, seek unsocial pleasures in the bottom
of his cell! Let the sublimated philosopher grasp visionary happiness, while pursuing phantoms
dressed in the garb of truth! Their supreme wisdom is supreme folly: and they mistake for happiness
the mere absence of pain. Had they ever felt the solid pleasure of one generous spasm of the
heart, they would exchange for it all the frigid speculations of their lives, which you have
been vaunting in such elevated terms. Believe me, then, my friend, that that is a miserable
arithmetic, which could estimate friendship at nothing, or at less than nothing. Respect for
you has induced me to enter into this discussion, and to hear principles uttered, which I detest
and abjure. Respect for myself now obliges me to recall you into the proper limits of your
office. When nature assigned us the same habitation, she gave us over it a divided empire.
To you she allotted the field of science; to me that of morals.

When the circle is to be squared, or the orbit of a comet to be traced; when the arch of greatest
strength, or the solid of least resistance is to be investigated, take up the problem; it is
yours; nature has given me no cognizance of it. In like manner, in denying to you the feelings
of sympathy, of benevolence, of gratitude, of justice, of love, of friendship, she has excluded
you from their control. To these she has adapted the mechanism of the heart. Morals were too
essential to the happiness of man, to be risked on the uncertain combinations of the head.
She laid their foundation, therefore, in sentiment, not in science. That she gave to all, as
necessary to all: this to a few only, as sufficing with a few. I know indeed, that you pretend
authority to the sovereign control of our conduct, in all its parts: and a respect for your
grave saws and maxims, a desire to do what is right, has sometimes induced me to conform to
your counsels. A few facts, however, which I can readily recall to your memory, will suffice
to prove to you, that nature has not organized you for our moral direction. When the poor wearied
soldier, whom we overtook at Chickahominy, with his pack on his back, begged us to let him
get up behind our chariot, you began to calculate that the road was full of soldiers, and that
if all should be taken up, our horses would fail in their journey. We drove on therefore. But
soon becoming sensible you had made me do wrong, that though we cannot relieve all the distressed,
we should relieve as many as we can, I turned about to take up the soldier; but he had entered
a by-path, and was no more to be found: and from that moment to this, I could never find him
out to ask his forgiveness. Again, when the poor woman came to ask a charity in Philadelphia,
you whispered, that she looked like a drunkard, and that half a dollar was enough to give her
for the ale-house. Those who want the dispositions to give, easily find reasons why they ought
not to give. When I sought her out afterwards, and did what I should have done at first, you
know, that she employed the money immediately towards placing her child at school. If our country,
when pressed with wrongs at the point of the bayonet, had been governed by its heads instead
of its' hearts, where should we have been now? Hanging on a gallows as high as Hainan's. You
began to calculate, and to compare wealth and numbers: we threw up a few pulsations of our
blood; we supplied enthusiasm against wealth and numbers; we put our existence to the hazard,
when the hazard seemed against us, and we saved our country: justifying, at the same time,
the ways of Providence, whose precept is, to do always what is right, and leave the issue to
him. In short, my friend, as far as my recollection serves me, I do not know that I ever did
a good thing on your suggestion, or a dirty one without it. I do for ever, then, disclaim your
interference in my province. Fill paper as you please with triangles and squares: try how many
ways you can hang and combine them together. I shall never envy nor control your sublime delights.
But leave me to decide when and where friendships are to be contracted. You say I contract
them at random. So you said the woman at Philadelphia was a drunkard. I receive none into my
esteem, till I know they are worthy of it. Wealth, title, office, are no recommendations to
my friendship. On the contrary, great good qualities are requisite to make amends for their
having wealth, title, and office. You confess, that, in the present case, I could not have
made a worthier choice. You only object, that I was so soon to lose them. We are not immortal
ourselves, my friend; how can we expect our enjoyments to be so? We have no rose without its
thorn; no pleasure without alloy. It is the law of our existence; and we must acquiesce. It
is the condition annexed to all our pleasures, not by us who receive, but by him who gives
them. True, this condition is pressing cruelly on me at this moment. I feel more fit for death
than life. But when I look back on the pleasures of which it is the consequence, I am conscious
they were worth the price I am paying. Notwithstanding your endeavors, too, to damp my hopes,
I comfort myself with expectations of their promised return. Hope is sweeter than despair;
and they were too good to mean to deceive me. 'In the summer,' said the gentleman; but 'In
the spring,' said the lady; and I should love her for ever, were it only for that! Know, then,
my friend, that I have taken these good people into my bosom; that I have lodged them in the
warmest cell I could find; that I love them, and will continue to love them through life; that
if fortune should dispose them on one side the globe, and me on the other, my affections shall
pervade its whole mass to reach them. Knowing then my determination, attempt not to disturb
it. If you can at any time furnish matter for their amusement, it will be the office of a good
neighbor to do it. I will, in like manner, seize any occasion which may offer, to do the like
good turn for you with Condorcet, Rittenhouse, Madison, La Cretelle, or any other of those
worthy sons of science, whom you so justly prize.

I thought this a favorable proposition whereon to rest the issue of the dialogue. So I put
an end to it by calling for my nightcap. Methinks, I hear you wish to Heaven I had called a
little sooner, and so spared you the ennui of such a sermon. I did not interrupt them sooner,
because I was in a mood for hearing sermons. You, too, were the subject; and on such a thesis,
I never think the theme long; not even if I am to write it, and that slowly and awkwardly,
as now, with the left hand. But that you may not be discouraged from a correspondence, which
begins so formidably, I will promise you, on my honor, that my future letters shall be of a
reasonable length. I will even agree to express but half my esteem for you, for fear of cloying
you with too full a dose. But on your part, no curtailing. If your letters are as long as the
Bible, they will appear short to me. Only let them be brim full of affection. I shall read
them with the dispositions with which Arlequin, in Les Deux Billets, spelt the words 'Je t'aime,'
and wished that the whole alphabet had entered into their composition.

We have had incessant rains since your departure. These make me fear for your health, as well
as that you had an uncomfortable journey. The same cause has prevented me from being able to
give you any account of your friends here. This voyage to Fontainebleau will probably send
the Count de Moutier and the Marquis de Brehan to America. Danquerville promised to visit me,
but has not done it as yet. De la Tude comes sometimes to take family soup with me, and entertains
me with anecdotes of his five and thirty years' imprisonment. How fertile is the mind of man,
which can make the Bastille and dungeon of Vincennes yield interesting anecdotes! You know
this was for making four verses on Madame de Pompadour. But I think you told me you did not
know the verses. They were these.

     'Sans esprit, sans sentiment,
     Sans etre belle, ni neuve,
     En France on peut avoir le premier amant:
     Pompadour en est Tepreuve.'

I have read the memoir of his three escapes. As to myself, my health is good, except my wrist,
which mends slowly, and my mind, which mends not at all, but broods constantly over your departure.
The lateness of the season obliges me to decline my journey into the south of France. Present
me in the most friendly terms to Mr. Cosway, and receive me into your own recollection with
a partiality and warmth, proportioned not to my own poor merit, but to the sentiments of sincere
affection and esteem, with which I have the honor to be, my Dear Madam,

Your most obedient, humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XXIX.--TO MRS. COSWAY, October 13, 1786

TO MRS. COSWAY.

Paris, October 13, 1786.

My Dear Madam,

Just as I had sealed the enclosed, I received a letter of a good length, dated Antwerp, with
your name at the bottom. I prepared myself for a feast. I read two or three sentences: looked
again at the signature, to see if I had not mistaken it. It was visibly yours. Read a sentence
or two more. Diable! Spelt your name distinctly. There was not a letter of it omitted. Began
to read again. In fine, after reading a little, and examining the signature alternately, half
a dozen times, I found that your name was to four lines only, instead of four pages. I thank
you for the four lines, however, because they prove you think of me; little, indeed, but better
little than none. To show how much I think of you, I send you the enclosed letter of three
sheets of paper, being a history of the evening I parted with you. But how expect you should
read a letter of three mortal sheets of paper? I will tell you. Divide it into six doses of
half a sheet each, and every day, when the toilette begins, take a dose, that is to say, read
half a sheet. By this means, it will have the only merit its length and dulness can aspire
to, that of assisting your coiffeuse to procure you six good naps of sleep. I will even allow
you twelve days to get through it, holding you rigorously to one condition only, that is, that
at whatever hour you receive this, you do not break the seal of the enclosed till the next
toilette. Of this injunction I require a sacred execution. I rest it on your friendship, and
that in your first letter, you tell me honestly, whether you have honestly performed it. I
send you the song I promised. Bring me in return the subject, Jours heureux! Were I a songster,
I should sing it all to these words; 'Dans ces lieux qu'elle tarde à se rendre!' Learn it,
I pray you, and sing it with feeling. My right hand presents its devoirs to you, and sees with
great indignation the left supplanting it in a correspondence so much valued. You will know
the first moment it can resume its rights. The first exercise of them shall be addressed to
you, as you had the first essay of its rival. It will yet, however, be many a day. Present
my esteem to Mr. Cosway, and believe me to be yours very affectionately,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XXX.--M. LE ROY DE L'ACADEMIE DES SCIENCES, November 13, 1786

M. LE ROY DE L'ACADEMIE DES SCIENCES.

Paris, November 13, 1786.

Sir,

I received the honor of yours of September the 18th, a day or two after the accident of a dislocated
wrist had disabled me from writing. I have waited thus long in constant hope of recovering
its use. But finding that this hope walks before me like my shadow, I can no longer oppose
the desire and duty of answering your polite and learned letter. I therefore employ my left
hand in the office of scribe, which it performs indeed slowly, awkwardly, and badly.

The information given by me to the Marquis de Chastellux, and alluded to in his book and in
your letter, was, that the sea breezes which prevail in the lower parts of Virginia, during
the summer months, and in the warm parts of-the day, had made a sensible progress into the
interior country: that formerly, within the memory of persons living, they extended but little
above Williamsburg; that afterwards they became sensible as high as Richmond; and that, at
present, they penetrate sometimes as far as the first mountains, which are above an hundred
miles further from the sea coast, than Williamsburg is. It is very rare, indeed, that they
reach those mountains, and not till the afternoon is considerably advanced. A light northwesterly
breeze is, for the most part, felt there, while an easterly or northeasterly wind is blowing
strongly in the lower country. How far northward and southward of Virginia, this easterly breeze
Takes place, I am not informed. I must, therefore, be understood as speaking of that State
only, which extends on the sea coast from 36 1/2 to 38° of latitude.

This is the fact. We know too little of the operations of nature in the physical world, to
assign causes with any degree of confidence. Willing always, however, to guess at what we do
not know, I have sometimes indulged myself with conjectures on the causes of the phenomena
above stated. I will hazard them on paper, for your amusement, premising for their foundation
some principles believed to be true.

Air resting on a heated and reflecting surface, becomes warmer, rarer, and lighter: it ascends
therefore, and the circumjacent air, which is colder and heavier, flows into its place, becomes
warmed and lightened in its turn, ascends, and is succeeded as that which went before. If the
heated surface be circular, the air flows to it from every quarter, like the rays of a circle
to its centre. If it be a zone of determinate breadth and indefinite length, the air will flow
from each side perpendicularly on it. If the currents of air flowing from opposite sides, be
of equal force, they will meet in equilibrio, at a line drawn longitudinally through the middle
of the zone. If one current be stronger than the other, the stronger one will force back the
line of equilibrium, towards the further edge of the zone, or even beyond it: the motion it
has acquired causing it to overshoot the zone, as the motion acquired by a pendulum in its
descent, causes it to vibrate beyond the point of its lowest descent.

Earth, exposed naked to the sun's rays, absorbs a good portion of them; but, being an opaque
body, those rays penetrate to a small depth only. Its surface, by this accumulation of absorbed
rays, becomes considerably heated. The residue of the rays are reflected into the air resting
on that surface. This air, then, is warmed, 1. by the direct rays of the sun; 2. by its reflected
rays; 3. by contact with the heated surface. A forest receiving the sun's rays, a part of them
enters the intervals between the trees, and their reflection upwards is intercepted by the
leaves and boughs. The rest fall on the trees, the leaves of which being generally inclined
towards the horizon, reflect the rays downwards. The atmosphere here, then, receives little
or no heat by reflection. Again, these leaves having a power of keeping themselves cool by
their own transpiration, they impart no heat to the air by contact. Reflection and contact,
then, two of the three modes before-mentioned, of communicating heat, are wanting here; and,
of course, the air over a country covered by forest must be colder than that over cultivated
grounds.

The sea being pellucid, the sun's rays penetrate it to a considerable depth. Being also fluid,
and in perpetual agitation, its parts are constantly mixed together; so that instead of its
heat being all accumulated in its surface, as in the case of a solid, opaque body, it is diffused
through its whole mass. Its surface, therefore, is comparatively cool, for these reasons; to
which may be added that of evaporation. The small degree of reflection which might otherwise
take place, is generally prevented by the rippled state of its surface. The air resting on
the sea, then, like that resting on a forest, receives little or no heat by reflection or contact;
and is therefore colder than that which lies over a cultivated country.

To apply these observations to the phenomena under consideration. The first settlements of
Virginia were made along the sea coast, bearing from the south, towards the north, a little
eastwardly. These settlements formed a zone, in which, though every point was not cleared of
its forest, yet a good proportion was cleared and cultivated. The cultivated earth, as the
sun advances above the horizon in the morning, acquires from it an intense heat, which is retained
and increased through the warm parts of the day. The air resting on it becomes warm in proportion,
and rises. On one side is a country still covered with forest: on the other is the ocean. The
colder air from both of these, then rushes towards the heated zone, to supply the place left
vacant there by the ascent of its warm air. The breeze from the west is light and feeble; because
it traverses a country covered with mountains and forests, which retard its current. That from
the east is strong; as passing over the ocean, wherein there is no obstacle to its motion.
It is probable, therefore, that this easterly breeze forces itself far into, or perhaps beyond,
the zone which produces it. This zone is, by the increase of population, continually widening
into the interior country. The line of equilibrium between the easterly and westerly breezes
is, therefore, progressive.

Did no foreign causes intervene, the sea breezes would be a little southwardly of the east,
that direction being perpendicular to our coast. But within the tropics, there are winds which
blow continually and strongly from the east. This current affects the course of the air, even
without the tropics. The same cause, too, which produces a strong motion of the air, from east
to west, between the tropics, to wit, the sun, exercises its influence without those limits,
but more feebly, in proportion as the surface of the globe is there more obliquely presented
to its rays. This effect, though not great, is not to be neglected when the sun is in or near
our summer solstice, which is the season of these easterly breezes. The northern air, too,
flowing towards the equatorial parts, to supply the vacuum made there by the ascent of their
heated air, has only the small rotary motion of the polar latitudes from which it comes. Nor
does it suddenly acquire the swifter rotation of the parts into which it enters. This gives
it the effect of a motion opposed to that of the earth, that is to say, of an easterly one.
And all these causes together are known to produce currents of air in the Atlantic, varying
from east to northeast, as far as the fortieth degree of latitude. It is this current which
presses our sea breeze out of its natural southeasterly direction, to an easterly, and sometimes
almost a northeasterly one.

We are led naturally to ask, where the progress of our sea breezes will ultimately be stopped?
No confidence can be placed in any answer to this question. If they should ever pass the mountainous
country which separates the waters of the ocean from those of the Mississippi, there may be
circumstances which might aid their further progress, as far as the Mississippi. That mountainous
country commences about two hundred miles from the sea coast, and consists of successive ranges
passing from northeast to southwest, and rising the one above the other to the Allegany Ridge,
which is the highest of all. From that, lower and lower ridges succeed one another again, till
having covered, in the whole, a breadth of two hundred miles from southeast to northwest, they
subside into a plain, fertile country, extending four hundred miles to the Mississippi, and
probably much further on the other side, towards the heads of the western waters. When this
country shall become cultivated, it will, for the reasons before explained, draw to it winds
from the east and west. In this case, should the sea breezes pass the intermediate mountains,
they will rather be aided than opposed in their further progress to the Mississippi. There
are circumstances, however, which render it possible that they may not be able to pass those
intermediate mountains. 1. These mountains constitute the highest lands within the United States.
The air on them must consequently be very cold and heavy, and have a tendency to flow both
to the east and west. 2. Ranging across the current of the sea breezes, they are in themselves,
so many successive barriers opposed to their progress. 3. The country they occupy is covered
with trees, which assist to weaken and spend the force of the breezes. 4. It will remain so
covered; a very small proportion of it being capable of culture. 5. The temperature of its
air, then, will never be softened by culture.

Whether in the plain country between the Mississippi and Allegany mountains, easterly or westerly
winds prevail at present, I am not informed. I conjecture, however, that they must be westerly:
and I think with you, Sir, that if those mountains were to subside into plain country, as their
opposition to the westerly winds would then be removed, they would repress more powerfully
those from the east, and of course would remove the line of equilibrium nearer to the sea coast
for the present.

Having had occasion to mention the course of the tropical winds from east to west, I will add
some observations connected with them. They are known to occasion a strong current in the ocean,
in the same direction. This current breaks on that wedge of land of which Saint Roque is the
point; the southern column of it probably turning off and washing the coast of Brazil. I say
probably, because I have never heard the fact, and conjecture it from reason only. The northern
column, having its western motion diverted towards the north, and reinforced by the currents
of the great rivers Orinoko, Amazons, and Tocantin, has probably been the agent which formed
the Gulf of Mexico, cutting the American continent nearly in two, in that part. It re-issues
into the ocean at the northern end of the Gulf, and passes by the name of the Gulf Stream,
all along the coast of the United States, to its northern extremity. There it turns off eastwardly,
having formed by its eddy, at this turn, the Banks of Newfoundland. Through the whole of its
course, from the Gulf to the Banks, it retains a very sensible warmth. The Spaniards are, at
this time, desirous of trading to their Philippine Islands, by the way of the Cape of Good
Hope: but opposed in it by the Dutch, under authority of the treaty of Munster, they are examining
the practicability of a common passage through the Straits of Magellan, or round Cape Horn.
Were they to make an opening through the Isthmus of Panama, a work much less difficult than
some even of the inferior canals of France, however small this opening should be in the beginning,
the tropical current entering it with all its force, would soon widen it sufficiently for its
own passage, and thus complete in a short time, that work which otherwise will still employ
it for ages. Less country, too, would be destroyed by it in this way. These consequences would
follow. 1. Vessels from Europe or the western coast of Africa, by entering the tropics, would
have a steady wind and tide to carry them through the Atlantic, through America and the Pacific
ocean, to every part of the Asiatic coast, and of the eastern coast of Africa: thus performing
with speed and safety the tour of the whole globe, to within about twenty-four degrees of longitude,
or one fifteenth part of its circumference; the African continent, under the line, occupying
about that space. 2. The Gulf of Mexico, now the most dangerous navigation in the world on
account of its currents and moveable sands, would become stagnant and safe. 3. The Gulf Stream
on the coast of the United States would cease, and with that, those derangements of course
and reckoning, which now impede and endanger the intercourse with those States. 4. The fogs
on the Banks of Newfoundland,* supposed to be the vapors of the Gulf Stream rendered turbid
by cold air, would disappear. 5. Those Banks ceasing to receive supplies of sand, weeds, and
warm water, by the Gulf Stream, it might become problematical what effect changes of pasture
and temperatures would have on the fisheries. However it is time to relieve you from this long
lecture. I wish its subject may have been sufficiently interesting to make amends for its details.
These are submitted with entire deference to your better judgment.

     [* This ingenious and probable conjecture, I found in a
     letter from Dr. Franklin to yourself, published in the late
     volume of the American Philosophical Transactions.]

LETTER XXXI.--TO GENERAL WASHINGTON, November 14, 1786

TO GENERAL WASHINGTON.

Paris, November 14, 1786.

Sir,

The house of Le Coulteux, which for some centuries has been the wealthiest of this place, has
it in contemplation to establish a great company for the fur trade. They propose that partners
interested one half in the establishment, should be American citizens, born and residing in
the United States. Yet if I understood them rightly, they expect that the half of the company
which resides here, should make the greatest part, or perhaps the whole of the advances, while
those on our side the water should superintend the details. They had, at first, thought of
Baltimore as the centre of their American transactions. I have pointed out to them the advantages
of Alexandria for this purpose. They have concluded to take information as to Baltimore, Philadelphia,
and New York, for a principal deposit, and having no correspondent at Alexandria, have asked
me to procure a state of the advantages of that place, as also to get a recommendation of the
best merchant there, to be adopted as partner and head of the business there. Skill, punctuality,
and integrity are the requisites in such a character. They will decide on their whole information,
as to the place for their principal factory. Being unwilling that Alexandria should lose its
pretensions, I have undertaken to procure them information as to that place. If they undertake
this trade at all, it will be on so great a scale as to decide the current of the Indian-trade
to the place they adopt. I have no acquaintance at Alexandria or in its neighborhood; but believing
you would feel an interest in the matter, from the same motives which I do, I venture to ask
the favor of you to recommend to me a proper merchant for their purpose, and to engage some
well informed person to send me a representation of the advantages of Alexandria, as the principal
deposit of the fur trade.

The author of the political part of the Encyclopédie Méthodique desired me to examine his article,
Etats Unis. I did so. I found it a tissue of errors; for in truth they know nothing about us
here. Particularly, however, the article Cincinnati was a mere philippic against that institution:
in which it appeared that there was an utter ignorance of facts and motives. I gave him notes
on it. He reformed it, as he supposed, and sent it again to me to revise. In this reformed
state, Colonel Humphreys saw it.

I found it necessary to write that article for him. Before I gave it to him, I showed it to
the Marquis de la Fayette, who made a correction or two. I then sent it to the author. He used
the materials, mixing a great deal of his own with them. In a work which is sure of going down
to the latest posterity, I thought it material to set facts to rights, as much as possible.
The author was well disposed; but could not entirely get the better of his original bias. I
send you the article as ultimately published. If you find any material errors in it, and will
be so good as to inform me of them, I shall probably have opportunities of setting this author
to rights. What has heretofore passed between us on this institution, makes it my duty to mention
to you, that I have never heard a person in Europe, learned or unlearned, express his thoughts
on this institution, who did not consider it as dishonorable and destructive to our governments;
and that every writing which has come out since my arrival here, in which it is mentioned,
considers it, even as now reformed, as the germ whose developement is one day to destroy the
fabric we have reared. I did not apprehend this, while I had American ideas only. But I confess
that what I have seen in Europe, has brought me over to that opinion; and that though the day
may be at some distance, beyond the reach of our lives perhaps, yet it will certainly come,
when a single fibre left of this institution will produce an hereditary aristocracy, which
will change the form of our governments from the best to the worst in the world. To know the
mass of evil which flows from this fatal source, a person must be in France; he must see the
finest soil, the finest climate, the most compact state, the most benevolent character of people,
and every earthly advantage combined, insufficient to prevent this scourge from rendering existence
a curse to twenty-four out of twenty-five parts of the inhabitants of this country. With us,
the branches of this institution cover all the states. The southern ones, at this time, are
aristocratical in their dispositions: and that that spirit should grow and extend itself, is
within the natural order of things. I do not flatter myself with the immortality of our governments:
but I shall think little also of their longevity, unless this germ of destruction be taken
out. When the society themselves shall weigh the possibility of evil, against the impossibility
of any good to proceed from this institution, I cannot help hoping they will eradicate it.
I know they wish the permanence of our governments, as much as any individuals composing them.

Paris, December 16, 1786.

Dear Sir,

After a very long silence, I am at length able to write to you. An unlucky dislocation of my
right wrist has disabled me from using that hand, three months. I now begin to use it a little,
but with great pain; so that this letter must be taken up at such intervals as the state of
my hand will permit, and will probably be the work of some days. Though the joint seems to
be well set, the swelling does not abate, nor the use of it return. I am now, therefore, on
the point of setting out, to the south of France, to try the use of some mineral waters there,
by immersion. This journey will be of two or three months.

I enclose you herein a copy of the letter from the minister of finance to me, making several
advantageous regulations for our commerce. The obtaining this has occupied us a twelvemonth.
I say us, because I find the Marquis de la Fayette so useful an auxiliary, that acknowledgements
for his co-operation are always due. There remains still something to do for the articles of
rice, turpentine, and ship duties. What can be done for tobacco when the late regulation expires,
is very uncertain. The commerce between the United States and this country being put on a good
footing, we may afterwards proceed to try if any thing can be done to favor our intercourse
with her colonies. Admission into them for our fish and flour, is very desirable: but, unfortunately,
both those articles would raise a competition against their own.

I find by the public papers, that your commercial convention failed in point of representation.
If it should produce a full meeting in May, and a broader reformation, it will still be well.
To make us one nation as to foreign concerns, and keep us distinct in domestic ones, gives
the outline of the proper division of powers between the general and particular governments.
But to enable the federal head to exercise the powers given it, to best advantage, it should
be organized, as the particular ones are, into legislative, executive, and judiciary. The first
and last are already separated. The second should be. When last with Congress, I often proposed
to members to do this, by making of the committee of the States an executive committee during
the recess of Congress, and during its sessions to appoint a committee to receive and despatch
all executive business, so that Congress itself should meddle only with what should be legislative.
But I question if any Congress (much less all successively) can have self-denial enough to
go, through with this distribution. The distribution, then, should be imposed on them. I find
Congress have reversed their division of the western States, and proposed to make them fewer
and larger. This is reversing the natural order of things. A tractable people may be governed
in large bodies: but in proportion as they depart from this character, the extent of their
government must be less. We see into what small divisions the Indians are obliged to reduce
their societies. This measure, with the disposition to shut up the Mississippi, gives me serious
apprehensions of the severance of the eastern and western parts of our confederacy. It might
have been made the interest of the western States to remain united with us, by managing their
interests honestly, and for their own good. But the moment we sacrifice their interests to
our own, they will see it better to govern themselves. The moment they resolve to do this,
the point is settled. A forced connection is neither our interest, nor within our power.

*****

I thank you for your communications in Natural History. The several instances of trees, &c.
found far below the surface of the earth, as in the case of Mr. Hay's well, seem to set the
reason of man at defiance.

I am, Dear Sir, with sincere esteem, your friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XXXIII.--TO CHARLES THOMSON, December 17,1780

TO CHARLES THOMSON.

Paris, December 17,1780.

Dear Sir,

A dislocation of my right wrist has for three months past disabled me from writing, except
with my left hand, which was too slow and awkward to be employed often. I begin to have so
much use of my wrist as to be able to write, but it is slowly, and in pain. I take the first
moment I can, however, to acknowledge the receipt of your letters of April the 6th, July the
8th and 30th. In one of these, you say you have not been able to learn, whether, in the new
mills in London, steam is the immediate mover of the machinery, or raises water to move it.
It is the immediate mover. The power of this agent, though long known, is but now beginning
to be applied to the various purposes of which it is susceptible. You observe, that Whitehurst
supposes it to have been the agent, which bursting the earth, threw it up into mountains and
vallies. You ask me what I think of this book. I find in it many interesting facts brought
together, and many ingenious commentaries on them. But there are great chasms in his facts,
and consequently in his reasoning, These he fills up by suppositions, which may be as reasonably
denied as granted. A sceptical reader, therefore, like myself, is left in the lurch. I acknowledge,
however, he makes more use of fact, than any other writer on a theory of the earth. But I give
one answer to all these theorists. That is as follows. They all suppose the earth a created
existence. They must suppose a creator then; and that he possessed power and wisdom to a great
degree. As he intended the earth for the habitation of animals and vegetables, is it reasonable
to suppose, he made two jobs of his creation, that he first made a chaotic lump, and set it
into rotatory motion, and then waited the millions of ages necessary to form itself? That when
it had done this, he stepped in a second time, to create the animals and plants which were
to inhabit it? As the hand of a creator is to be called in, it may as well be called in at
one stage of the process as another. We may as well suppose he created the earth at once, nearly
in the state in which we see it, fit for the preservation of the beings he placed on it. But
it is said, we have a proof that he did not create it in its present solid form, but in a state
of fluidity: because its present shape of an oblate spheroid is precisely that, which a fluid
mass revolving on its axis would assume.

I suppose, that the same equilibrium between gravity and centrifugal force, which would determine
a fluid mass into the form of an oblate spheroid, would determine the wise creator of that
mass, if he made it in a solid state, to give it the same spheroidical form. A revolving fluid
will continue to change its shape, till it attains that in which its principles of contrary
motion are balanced. For if you suppose them not balanced, it will change its form. Now the
same balanced form is necessary for the preservation of a revolving solid. The creator, therefore,
of a revolving solid, would make it an oblate spheroid, that figure alone admitting a perfect
equilibrium. He would make it in that form, for another reason; that is, to prevent a shifting
of the axis of rotation. Had he created the earth perfectly spherical, its axis might have
been perpetually shifting, by the influence of the other bodies of the system; and by placing
the inhabitants of the earth successively under its poles, it might have been depopulated;
whereas, being spheroidical, it has but one axis on which it can revolve in equilibrio. Suppose
the axis of the earth to shift forty-five degrees; then cut it into one hundred and eighty
slices, making every section in the plane of a circle of latitude, perpendicular to the axis:
every one of these slices, except the equatorial one, would be unbalanced, as there would be
more matter on one side of its axis than on the other. There could be but one diameter drawn
through such a slice, which would divide it into two equal parts. On every other possible diameter,
the parts would hang unequal. This would produce an irregularity in the diurnal rotation. We
may, therefore, conclude it impossible for the poles of the earth to shift, if it was made
spheroidical; and that it would be made spheroidical, though solid, to obtain this end. I use
this reasoning only on the supposition, that the earth has had a beginning. I am sure I shall
read your conjectures on this subject with great pleasure, though I bespeak beforehand, a right
to indulge my natural incredulity and scepticism. The pain in which I write, awakens me here
from my reverie, and obliges me to conclude with compliments to Mrs. Thomson, and assurances
to yourself of the esteem and affection with which I am sincerely, Dear Sir, your friend and
servant,

Th: Jefferson.

P. S. Since writing the preceding, I have had a conversation on the subject of the steam-mills,
with the famous Boulton, to whom those of London belong, and who is here at this time. He compares
the effect of steam with that of horses, in the following manner. Six horses, aided with the
most advantageous combination of the mechanical powers hitherto tried, will grind six bushels
of flour in an hour; at the end of which time they are all in a foam, and must rest. They can
work thus six hours in the twenty-four, grinding thirty-six bushels of flour, which is six
to each horse, for the twenty-four hours. His steam-mill in London consumes one hundred and
twenty bushels of coal in twenty-four hours, turns ten pair of stones, which grind eight bushels
of flour an hour each, which is nineteen hundred and twenty bushels in the twenty-four hours.
This makes a peck and a half of coal perform exactly as much as a horse in one day can perform.

LETTER XXXIV.--TO COLONEL MONROE, December 18, 1786

TO COLONEL MONROE.

Paris, December 18, 1786.

Dear Sir,

Your letters of August the 19th and October the 12th have come duly to hand. My last to you
was of the 11th of August. Soon after that date I got my right wrist dislocated, which has
till now deprived me of the use of that hand; and even now I can use it but slowly, and with
pain. The revisal of the Congressional intelligence contained in your letters, makes me regret
the loss of it on your departure. I feel, too, the want of a person there to whose discretion
I can trust confidential communications, and on whose friendship I can rely against the unjust
designs of malevolence. I have no reason to suppose I have enemies in Congress; yet it is too
possible, to be without that fear. Some symptoms make me suspect, that my proceedings to redress
the abusive administration of tobacco by the Farmers General have indisposed towards me a powerful
person in Philadelphia, who was profiting from that abuse. An expression in the enclosed letter
of M. de Calonne, would seem to imply, that I had asked the abolition of Mr. Morris's contract.
I never did. On the contrary, I always observed to them, that it would be unjust to annul that
contract. I was led to this, by principles both of justice and interest. Of interest, because
that contract would keep up the price of tobacco here to thirty-four, thirty-six, and thirty-eight
livres, from which it will fall when it shall no longer have that support. However, I have
done what was right, and I will not so far wound my privilege of doing that, without regard
to any man's interest, as to enter into any explanations of this paragraph with him. Yet I
esteem him highly, and suppose that hitherto he had esteemed me. You will see by Calonne's
letter, that we are doing what we can to get the trade of the United States put on a good footing.
I am now about setting out on a journey to the south of France, one object of which is to try
the mineral waters there for the restoration of my hand; but another is, to visit all the seaports
where we have trade, and to hunt up all the inconveniences under which it labors, in order
to get them rectified. I shall visit, and carefully examine too, the canal of Languedoc. On
my return, which will be early in the spring, I shall send you several livraisons of the Encyclopédie,
and the plan of your house. I wish to Heaven, you may continue in the disposition to fix it
in Albemarle. Short will establish himself there, and perhaps Madison may be tempted to do
so. This will be society enough, and it will be the great sweetener of our lives. Without society,
and a society to our taste, men are never contented. The one here supposed, we can regulate
to our minds, and we may extend our regulations to the sumptuary department, so as to set a
good example to a country which needs it, and to preserve our own happiness clear of embarrassment.
You wish not to engage in the drudgery of the bar. You have two asylums from that. Either to
accept a seat in the Council, or in the judiciary department. The latter, however, would require
a little previous drudgery at the bar, to qualify you to discharge your duty with satisfaction
to yourself. Neither of these would be inconsistent with a continued residence in Albemarle.
It is but twelve hours drive in a sulky from Charlottesville to Richmond, keeping a fresh horse
always at the half-way, which would be a small annual expense. I am in hopes, that Mrs. M.
will have in her domestic cares occupation and pleasure sufficient to fill her time, and insure
her against the tedium vitæ: that she will find, that the distractions of a town, and the waste
of life under these, can bear no comparison with the tranquil happiness of domestic life. If
her own experience has not yet taught her this truth, she has in its favor the testimony of
one, who has gone through the various scenes of business, of bustle, of office, of rambling,
and of quiet retirement, and who can assure her, that the latter is the only point upon which
the mind can settle at rest. Though not clear of inquietudes, because no earthly situation
is so, they are fewer in number, and mixed with more objects of contentment, than in any other
mode of life. But I must not philosophize too much with her, lest I give her too serious apprehensions
of a friendship I shall impose on her.

Paris, December 26,1786.

Dear Sir,

A note from me of the 22nd of September apprized you it would be some time before I should
be able to answer your letters. I did not then expect it would have been so long.

I enclose herein a resolution of Congress recalling Mr. Lambe, which I will beg the favor of
you to have delivered him. I have written to Mr. Adams on the subject of directing him to settle
with Mr. Barclay, and attend his answer. In the mean time, I am not without hopes Mr. Barclay
has done the business. I send also a note desiring Mr. Lambe to deliver you his cipher: and
a copy of a letter from the minister of finance here to me, announcing several regulations
in favor of our commerce.

My Notes on Virginia, having been hastily written, need abundance of corrections. Two or three
of these are so material, that I am reprinting a few leaves to substitute for the old. As soon
as these shall be ready, I will beg your acceptance of a copy. I shall be proud to be permitted
to send a copy also to the Count de Campomanes, as a tribute to his science and his virtues.
You will find in them, that the Natural Bridge has found an admirer in me also. I should be
happy to make with you the tour of the curiosities you will find therein mentioned. That kind
of pleasure surpasses much, in my estimation, whatever I find on this side the Atlantic. I
sometimes think of building a little hermitage at the Natural Bridge (for it is my property),
and of passing there a part of the year at least.

I have received American papers to the 1st of November. Some tumultuous meetings of the people
have taken place in the eastern States; i.e. one in Massachusetts, one in Connecticut, and
one in New Hampshire. Their principal demand was a respite in the judiciary proceedings. No
injury was done, however, in a single instance, to the person or property of any one, nor did
the tumult continue twenty-four hours in any one instance. In Massachusetts this was owing
to the discretion which the malcontents still preserved; in Connecticut and New Hampshire the
body of the people rose in support of government, and obliged the malcontents to go to their
homes. In the last mentioned State they seized about forty, who were in jail for trial. It
is believed this incident will strengthen our government. Those people are not entirely without
excuse. Before the war these States depended on their whale-oil and fish. The former was consumed
in England, and much of the latter in the Mediterranean. The heavy duties on American whale-oil,
now required in England, exclude it from that market: and the Algerines exclude them from bringing
their fish into the Mediterranean. France is opening her ports for their oil, but in the mean
while their ancient debts are pressing them, and they have nothing to pay with. The Massachusetts
Assembly, too, in their zeal for paying their public debt, had laid a tax too heavy to be paid,
in the circumstances of their State. The Indians seem disposed, too, to make war on us. These
complicated causes determined Congress to increase their forces to two thousand men. The latter
was the sole object avowed, yet the former entered for something into the measure. However,
I am satisfied the good sense of the people is the strongest army our governments can ever
have, and that it will not fail them. The commercial convention at Annapolis was not full enough
to do business. They found, too, their appointments too narrow, being confined to the article
of commerce. They have proposed a meeting at Philadelphia in May, and that it may be authorized
to propose amendments of whatever is defective in the federal constitution.

When I was in England, I formed a portable copying press, on the principles of the large one
they make there, for copying letters. I had a model made there, and it has answered perfectly.
A workman here has made several from that model. The itinerant temper of your court will, I
think, render one of these useful to you. You must, therefore, do me the favor to accept of
one. I have it now in readiness, and shall send it by the way of Bayonne, to the care of Mr.
Alexander there, unless Don Miguel de Lardi-zabal can carry it with him.

My hand admonishes me it is time to stop, and that I must defer writing to Mr. Barclay till
to-morrow.

Paris, December 29, 1786.

Sir,

When I had the honor of seeing you in London, you were so kind as to permit me to trouble you,
sometimes with my letters, and particularly on the subject of mathematical or philosophical
instruments. Such a correspondence will be too agreeable to me, and at the same time too useful,
not to avail myself of your permission. It has been an opinion pretty generally received among
philosophers, that the atmosphere of America is more humid than that of Europe. Monsieur de
Buffon makes this hypothesis one of the two pillars whereon he builds his system of the degeneracy
of animals in America. Having had occasion to controvert this opinion of his, as to the degeneracy
of animals there, I expressed a doubt of the fact assumed, that our climates are more moist.
I did not know of any experiments, which might authorize a denial of it. Speaking afterwards
on the subject with Dr. Franklin, he mentioned to me the observations he had made on a case
of magnets, made for him by Mr. Nairne in London. Of these you will see a detail in the second
volume of the American Philosophical Transactions, in a letter from Dr. Franklin to Mr. Nairne,
wherein he recommends to him to take up the principle therein explained, and endeavor to make
an hygrometer, which, taking slowly the temperature of the atmosphere, shall give its mean
degree of moisture, and enable us thus to make with more certainty a comparison between the
humidities of different climates. May I presume to trouble you with an inquiry of Mr. Nairne,
whether he has executed the Doctor's idea; and if he has, to get him to make for me a couple
of the instruments he may have contrived. They should be made of the same piece, and under
like circumstances, that sending one to America, I may rely on its indications there, compared
with those of the one I shall retain here. Being in want of a set of magnets also, I would
be glad if he would at the same time send me a set, the case of which should be made as Dr.
Franklin describes his to have been, so that I may repeat his experiment. Colonel Smith will
do me the favor to receive these things from Mr. Nairne, and to pay him for them.

I think Mr. Rittenhouse never published an invention of his in this way, which was a very good
one. It was of an hygrometer, which, like the common ones, was to give the actual moisture
of the air. He has two slips of mahogany about five inches long, three fourths of an inch broad,
and one tenth of an inch thick, the one having the grain running lengthwise, and the other
crosswise. These are glued together by their faces, so as to form a piece five inches long,
three fourths of an inch broad, and one third of an inch thick, which is stuck by its lower
end into a little plinth of wood, presenting their edge to the view. The fibres of the wood
you know are dilated, but not lengthened by moisture. The slip, therefore, whose grain is lengthwise,
becomes a standard, retaining always the same precise length. That which has its grain crosswise,
dilates with moisture, and contracts for the want of it. If the right hand piece be the cross-grained
one, when the air is very moist, it lengthens, and forces its companion to form a kind of interior
annulus of a circle on the left. When the air is dry, it contracts, draws its companion to
the right, and becomes itself the interior annulus. In order to show this dilation and contraction,
an index is fixed on the upper end of the two slips; a plate of metal or wood is fastened to
the front of the plinth, so as to cover the two slips from the eye. A slit, being nearly the
portion of a circle, is cut in this plate, so that the shank of the index may play freely through
its whole range. On the edge of the slit is a graduation. The objection to this instrument
is, that it is not fit for comparative observations, because no two pieces of wood being of
the same texture exactly, no two will yield exactly alike to the same agent. However, it is
less objectionable on this account, than most of the substances used. Mr. Rittenhouse had a
thought of trying ivory: but I do not know whether he executed it. All these substances not
only vary from one another at the same time, but from themselves at different times. All of
them, however, have some peculiar advantages, and I think this, on the whole, appeared preferable
to any other I had ever seen. Not knowing whether you had heard of this instrument, and supposing
it would amuse you, I have taken the liberty of detailing it to you.

Paris, December 31, 1786

Sir,

I had the honor of addressing you on the 12th of the last month; since which your favor of
October the 12th has been received, enclosing a copy of the resolution of Congress for recalling
Mr. Lambe. My letter by Mr. Randall informed you, that we had put an end to his powers, and
required him to repair to Congress. I lately received a letter from him, dated Alicant, October
the 10th, of which I have the honor to enclose you a copy: by which you will perceive, that
the circumstance of ill health, either true or false, is urged for his not obeying our call.
I shall immediately forward the order of Congress. I am not without fear, that some misapplication
of the public money may enter into the causes of his declining to return. The moment that I
saw a symptom of this in his conduct, as it was a circumstance which did not admit the delay
of consulting Mr. Adams, I wrote to Mr. Carmichael, to stop any monies which he might have
in the hands of his banker. I am still unable to judge whether he is guilty of this or not,
as by the arrangements with Mr. Adams, who alone had done business with the bankers of the
United States, in Holland, Mr. Lambe's drafts were to be made on him, and I know not what their
amount has been. His drafts could not have been negotiated, if made on us both, at places so
distant. Perhaps it may be thought, that the appointment of Mr. Lambe was censurable in the
moment in which it was made. It is a piece of justice, therefore, which I owe to Mr. Adams,
to declare that the proposition went first from me to him. I take the liberty of enclosing
you a copy of my letter to Mr. Adams, of September the 24th, 1785, in which that proposition
was made. It expresses the motives operating on my mind in that moment, as well as the cautions
I thought it necessary to take. To these must be added the difficulty of finding an American
in Europe fit for the business, and willing to undertake it. I knew afterwards, that Dr. Bancroft
(who is named in the letter) could not, on account of his own affairs, have accepted even a
primary appointment. I think it evident, that no appointment could have succeeded without a
much greater sum of money.

I am happy to find that Mr. Barclay's mission has been attended with complete success. For
this we are indebted, unquestionably, to the influence and good offices of the court of Madrid.
Colonel Franks, the bearer of this, will have the honor to put into your hands the original
of the treaty, with other papers accompanying it. It will appear by these, that Mr. Barclay
has conducted himself with a degree of intelligence and of good faith which reflects the highest
honor on him.

A copy of a letter from Captain O'Bryan to Mr. Carmichael is also herewith enclosed. The information
it contains will throw farther light on the affairs of Algiers. His observations on the difficulties
which arise from the distance of Mr. Adams and myself from that place, and from one another,
and the delays occasioned by this circumstance, are certainly just. If Congress should propose
to revive the negotiations, they will judge whether it will not be more expedient to send a
person to Algiers, who can be trusted with full powers: and also whether a mission to Constantinople
may not be previously necessary. Before I quit this subject, I must correct an error in the
letter of Captain O'Bryan. Mr. Lambe was not limited, as he says, to one hundred, but to two
hundred dollars apiece for our prisoners. This was the price which had been just paid for a
large number of French prisoners, and this was our guide.

Paris, January 5, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I am desired to forward to you the enclosed queries, and to ask the favor of you to give such
an answer to them, as may not give you too much trouble. Those which stand foremost on the
paper, can be addressed only to your complaisance; but the last may possibly be interesting
to your department, and to the United States. I mean those which suggest the possibility of
borrowing money in Europe, the principal of which shall be ultimately payable in land, and
in the mean time, a good interest. You know best whether the suggestion can be turned to any
profit, and whether it will be worth while to introduce any proposition to Congress thereon.
Among the possible shapes into which a matter of this kind may be formed, the following is
one. Let us suppose the public lands to be worth a dollar, hard money, the acre. If we should
ask of a monied man a loan of one hundred dollars, payable with one hundred acres of land at
the end of ten years, and in the mean time, carrying an interest of five per cent., this would
be more disadvantageous to the lender than a common loan, payable ultimately in cash. But if
we should say, we will deliver you the one hundred acres of land immediately, which is in fact
an immediate payment of the principal, and will nevertheless pay your interest of five per
cent., for ten years, this offers a superior advantage, and might tempt money-holders. But
what should we in fact receive, in this way, for our lands? Thirty-seven dollars and one fourth,
being left in Europe, on an interest of five per cent., would pay annually the interest of
the one hundred dollars for ten years. There would remain then only sixty-two dollars and three
quarters, for the one hundred acres of land; that is to say, about two thirds of its price.
Congress can best determine, whether any circumstances in our situation, should induce us to
get rid of any of our debts in that way. I beg you to understand, that I have named rates of
interest, term of payment and price of land, merely to state the case, and without the least
knowledge that a loan could be obtained on these terms. It remains to inform you, from whom
this suggestion comes. The person from whom I receive it, is a Monsieur Claviere, connected
with the monied men of Amsterdam. He is, on behalf of a company there, actually treating with
the Comptroller General here, for the purchase of our debt to this country, at a considerable
discount. Whether he has an idea of offering a loan to us, on terms such as I have above spoken
of, I know not; nor do I know that he is authorized to make the suggestion he has made. If
the thing should be deemed worthy the attention of Congress, they can only consider it as a
possibility, and take measures to avail themselves of it, if the possibility turns out in their
favor, and not to be disappointed if it does not. Claviere's proposition not being formal enough
for me to make an official communication of it, you will make what use of it you see best.

Paris, January 9, 1787.

Sir,

My last, of December the 31st, acknowledged the receipt of yours of October the 12th, as the
present does those of October the 3rd, 9th, and 27th, together with the resolution of Congress
of October the 16th, on the claim of Schweighaeuser. I will proceed in this business on the
return of Mr. Barclay, who being fully acquainted with all the circumstances, will be enabled
to give me that information, the want of which might lead me to do wrong on the one side or
the other.

Information of the signature of the treaty with Morocco has been long on its passage to you.
I will beg leave to recur to dates, that you may see that no part of it has been derived from
me. The first notice I had of it, was in a letter from Mr. Barclay, dated, Daralbeyda, August
the 11th. I received this on the 13th of September. No secure conveyance offered till the 26th
of the same month, being thirteen days after my receipt of it. In my letter of that date, which
went by the way of London, I had the honor to enclose you a copy of Mr. Barclay's letter. The
conveyance of the treaty itself is suffering a delay here at present, which all my anxiety
cannot prevent. Colonel Franks' baggage, which came by water from Cadiz to Rouen, has been
long and hourly expected. The moment it arrives, he will set out to London, to have duplicates
of the treaty signed by Mr. Adams, and from thence he will proceed to New York.

The Chevalier del Pinto, who treated with us on behalf of Portugal, being resident at London,
I have presumed that causes of the delay of that treaty had been made known to Mr. Adams, and
by him communicated to you. I will write to him by Colonel Franks, in order that you may be
answered on that subject.

The publication of the enclosed extract from my letter of May the 27th, 1786, will, I fear,
have very mischievous effects. It will tend to draw on the Count de Vergennes the formidable
phalanx of the Farms; to prevent his committing himself to me in any conversation which he
does not mean for the public papers; to inspire the same diffidence into all other ministers,
with whom I might have to transact business; to defeat the little hope, if any hope existed,
of getting rid of the Farm on the article of tobacco; and to damp that freedom of, communication
which the resolution of Congress of May the 3rd, 1784, was intended to re-establish. Observing
by the proceedings of Congress, that they are about to establish a coinage, I think it my duty
to inform them, that a Swiss, of the name of Drost, established here, has invented a method
of striking the two faces and the edge of a coin, at one stroke. By this, and other simplifications
of the process of coinage, he is enabled to coin from twenty-five thousand to thirty thousand
pieces a day, with the assistance of only two persons, the pieces of metal being first prepared.
I send you by Colonel Franks three coins of gold, silver, and copper, which you will perceive
to be perfect medals: and I can assure you, from having seen him coin many, that every piece
is as perfect as these. There has certainly never yet been seen any coin, in any country, comparable
to this. The best workmen in this way acknowledge that his is like a new art. Coin should always
be made in the highest perfection possible, because it is a great guard against the danger
of false coinage. This man would be willing to furnish his implements to Congress, and if they
please, he will go over and instruct a person to carry on the work: nor do I believe he would
ask any thing unreasonable. It would be very desirable, that in the institution of a new coinage,
we could set out on so perfect a plan as this, and the more so, as while the work is so exquisitely
done, it is done cheaper.

I will certainly do the best I can for the reformation of the consular convention, being persuaded
that our States would be very unwilling to conform their laws either to the convention, or
to the scheme. But it is too difficult and too delicate, to form sanguine hopes. However, that
there may be room to reduce the convention, as much as circumstances will admit, will it not
be expedient for Congress to give me powers, in which there shall be no reference to the scheme?
The powers sent me, oblige me to produce that scheme, and certainly, the moment it is produced,
they will not abate a tittle from it. If they recollect the scheme, and insist on it, we can
but conclude it; but if they have forgotten it (which may be), and are willing to reconsider
the whole subject, perhaps we may get rid of something the more of it. As the delay is not
injurious to us, because the convention, whenever and however made, is to put us in a worse
state than we are in now, I shall venture to defer saying a word on the subject, till I can
hear from you in answer to this. The full powers may be sufficiently guarded, by private instructions
to me, not to go beyond the former scheme. This delay may be well enough ascribed (whenever
I shall have received new powers) to a journey, I had before apprized the minister that I should
be obliged to take, to some mineral waters in the south of France, to see if by their aid I
may recover the use of my right hand, of which a dislocation about four months ago, threatens
to deprive me in a great measure. The surgeons have long insisted on this measure. I shall
return by Bordeaux, Nantes, and L'Orient, to get the necessary information for finishing our
commercial regulations here. Permit me, however, to ask, as immediately as possible, an answer,
either affirmative or negative, as Congress shall think best, and to ascribe the delay on which
I venture, to my desire to do what is for the best.

I send you a copy of the late marine regulations of this country. There are things in it, which
may become interesting to us. Particularly, what relates to the establishment of a marine militia,
and their classification.

You will have seen in the public papers, that the King has called an Assembly of the Notables
of this country. This has not been done for one hundred and sixty years past. Of course, it
calls up all the attention of the people. The objects of this Assembly are not named: several
are conjectured. The tolerating the Protestant religion; removing all the internal Custom-houses
to the frontier; equalizing the gabelles on salt through the kingdom; the sale of the King's
domains, to raise money; or, finally, the effecting this necessary end by some other means,
are talked of. But, in truth, nothing is known about it. This government practises secrecy
so systematically, that it never publishes its purposes or its proceedings, sooner or more
extensively than necessary. I send you a pamphlet, which, giving an account of the last Assemblée
des Notable, may give an idea of what the present will be.

A great desire prevails here of encouraging manufactures. The famous Boulton and Watt, who
are at the head of the plated manufactures of Birmingham, the steam mills of London, copying
presses and other mechanical works, have been here. It is said, also, that Wedgewood has been
here, who is famous for his steel manufactories, and an earthen ware in the antique style;
but as to this last person, I am not certain. It cannot, I believe be doubted, but that they
came at the request of government, and that they will be induced to establish similar manufactures
here.

The transferring hither those manufactures, which contribute so much to draw our commerce to
England, will have a great tendency to strengthen our connections with this country, and loosen
them with that.

The enfranchising the port of Honfleur at the mouth of the Seine, for multiplying the connections
with us, is at present an object. It meets with opposition in the ministry; but I am in hopes
it will prevail. If natural causes operate, uninfluenced by accidental circumstances, Bordeaux
and Honfleur, or Havre, must ultimately take the greatest part of our commerce. The former,
by the Garonne and canal of Languedoc, opens the southern provinces to us; the latter, the
northern ones and Paris. Honfleur will be peculiarly advantageous for our rice and whale oil,
of which the principal consumption is at Paris. Being free, they can be re-exported when the
market here shall happen to be overstocked.

The labors of the ensuing summer will close the eastern half of the harbor of Cherbourg, which
will contain and protect forty sail of the line. It has from fifty to thirty-five feet of water
next to the cones, shallowing gradually to the shore. Between this and Dunkirk, the navigation
of the channel will be rendered much safer in the event of a war with England, and invasions
on that country become more practicable.

The gazettes of France and Leyden, to the present date, accompany this.

Paris, January 11, 1787.

Dear Sir,

Mr. Jay, in his last letter to me, observes they hear nothing further of the treaty with Portugal.
I have taken the liberty of telling him that I will write to you on the subject, and that he
may expect to hear from you on it, by the present conveyance. The Chevalier del Pinto being
at London, I presume he has, or can inform you why it is delayed on their part. I will thank
you also for the information he shall give you.

There is here an order of priests called the Mathurins, the object of whose institution is,
the begging of alms for the redemption of captives. About eighteen months ago, they redeemed
three hundred, which cost them about fifteen hundred livres a piece. They have agents residing
in the Barbary States, who are constantly employed in searching and contracting for the captives
of their nation, and they redeem at a lower price than any other people can. It occurred to
me, that their agency might be engaged for our prisoners at Algiers. I have had interviews
with them, and the last night a long one with the General of the order. They offer their services
with all the benignity and cordiality possible. The General told me, he could not expect to
redeem our prisoners as cheap as their own, but that he would use all the means in his power
to do it on the best terms possible, which will be the better, as there shall be the less suspicion
that he acts for our public. I told him I would write to you on the subject, and speak to him
again. What do you think of employing them, limiting them to a certain price, as three hundred
dollars, for instance, or any other sum you think proper? He will write immediately to his
instruments there, and in two or three months we can know the event. He will deliver them at
Marseilles, Cadiz, or where we please, at our expense. The money remaining of the fund destined
to the Barbary business, may, I suppose, be drawn on for this object.

Paris, January 14, 1787.

Sir,

In the conversation with which you were pleased to honor me a few days ago, on the enfranchisement
of the port of Honfleur, I took the liberty of observing, that I was not instructed by my constituents
to make any proposition on that subject. That it would be agreeable to them, however, I must
suppose, because it will offer the following advantages.

1. It is a convenient entrepôt for furnishing us with the manufactures of the northern parts
of France, and particularly of Paris, and for receiving and distributing the productions of
our country in exchange.

2. Cowes, on the opposite side of the channel, has heretofore been the deposite for a considerable
part of our productions, landed in Great Britain in the first instance, but intended for re-exportation.
From thence our rice, particularly, has been distributed to France and other parts of Europe.
I am not certain, whether our tobaccos were deposited there, or carried to London to be sorted
for the different markets. To draw this business from Cowes, no place is so favorably situated
as Honfleur.

3. It would be a convenient deposite for our whale-oil, of which, after the supply of Paris,
there will be a surplus for re-exportation.

4. Should our fur-trade be recovered out of the hands of the English, it will naturally come
to Honfleur, as the out-port of Paris.

5. Salt is an important article in all our return cargoes; because, being carried as ballast,
its freight costs nothing. But on account of some regulations, with which I am not well acquainted,
it cannot at present be shipped to advantage from any port on the Seine.

6. Our vessels being built sharp, for swift sailing, suffer extremely in most of the western
ports of France, in which they are left on dry ground at every ebb of the tide. But at Honfleur,
I am told, they can ride in bold water, on a good bottom, and near the shore, at all times.

These facts may, perhaps, throw some light on the question in which, for the good of both countries,
you are pleased to interest yourself. I take the liberty, therefore, of barely mentioning them,
and with the more pleasure, as it furnishes me an occasion of assuring you of those sentiments
of respect and esteem, with which I have the honor to be your most obedient, humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XLII.--TO MONSIEUR DE CREVE-COEUR, January 15,1787

TO MONSIEUR DE CREVE-COEUR.

Paris, January 15,1787.

Dear Sir,

I see by the Journal of this morning, that they are robbing us of another of our inventions,
to give it to the English. The writer, indeed, only admits them to have revived what he thinks
was known to the Greeks, that is, the making the circumference of a wheel of one single piece.
The farmers in New Jersey were the first who practised it, and they practised it commonly.
Dr. Franklin, in one of his trips to London, mentioned this practice to the man now in London,
who has the patent for making those wheels. The idea struck him. The Doctor promised to go
to his shop, and assist him in trying to make the wheel of one piece. The Jersey farmers do
it by cutting a young sapling, and bending it, while green and juicy, into a circle; and leaving
it so until it becomes perfectly seasoned. But in London there are no saplings. The difficulty
was, then, to give to old wood the pliancy of young. The Doctor and the workman labored together
some weeks, and succeeded; and the man obtained a patent for it, which has made his fortune.
I was in his shop in London; he told me the whole story himself, and acknowledged not only
the origin of the idea, but how much the assistance of Dr. Franklin had contributed to perform
the operation on dry wood. He spoke of him with love and gratitude. I think I have had a similar
account from Dr. Franklin, but cannot be quite certain. I know, that being in Philadelphia
when the first set of patent wheels arrived from London, and were spoken of, by the gentleman
(an Englishman) who brought them, as a wonderful discovery, the idea of its being a new discovery
was laughed at by the Philadelphians, who, in their Sunday parties across the Delaware, had
seen every farmer's cart mounted on such wheels. The writer in the paper supposes the English
workman got his idea from Homer. But it is more likely the Jersey farmer got his idea from
thence, because ours are the only farmers who can read Homer; because, too, the Jersey practice
is precisely that stated by Homer: the English practice very different. Homer's words are (comparing
a young hero killed by Ajax to a poplar felled by a workman) literally thus: 'He fell on the
ground, like a poplar, which has grown smooth, in the west part of a great meadow; with its
branches shooting from its summit. But the chariot-maker, with his sharp axe, has felled it,
that he may bend a wheel for a beautiful chariot. It lies drying on the banks of the river.'
Observe the circumstances, which coincide with the Jersey practice. 1. It is a tree growing
in a moist place, full of juices, and easily bent. 2. It is cut while green. 3. It is bent
into the circumference of a wheel. 4. It is left to dry in that form. You, who write French
well and readily, should write a line for the Journal, to reclaim the honor of our farmers.
Adieu. Yours affectionately,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XLIII.--TO COLONEL EDWARD CARRINGTON, January 16, 1787

TO COLONEL EDWARD CARRINGTON.

Paris, January 16, 1787.

Dear Sir,

Uncertain whether you might be at New York at the moment of Colonel Franks' arrival, I have
enclosed my private letters for Virginia, under cover to our delegation in general, which,
otherwise, I would have taken the liberty to enclose particularly to you, as best acquainted
with the situation of the persons to whom they are addressed. Should this find you at New York,
I will still ask your attention to them.

In my letter to Mr. Jay, I have mentioned the meeting of the Notables, appointed for the 29th
instant. It is now put off to the 7th or 8th of next month. This event, which will hardly excite
any attention in America, is deemed here the most important one, which has taken place in their
civil line during the present century. Some promise their country great things from it, some
nothing. Our friend De la Fayette was placed on the list originally. Afterwards his name disappeared;
but finally was reinstated. This shows, that his character here is not considered as an indifferent
one; and that it excites agitation. His education in our school has drawn on him a very jealous
eye, from a court whose principles are the most absolute despotism. But I hope he has nearly
passed his crisis. The King, who is a good man, is favorably disposed towards him; and he is
supported by powerful family connections, and by the public good will. He is the youngest man
of the Notables, except one, whose office placed him on the list.

The Count de Vergennes has, within these ten days, had a very severe attack of what is deemed
an unfixed gout. He has been well enough, however, to do business to-day. But anxieties for
him are not yet quieted. He is a great and good minister, and an accident to him might endanger
the peace of Europe.

The tumults in America I expected would have produced in Europe an unfavorable opinion of our
political state. But it has not. On the contrary, the small effect of these tumults seems to
have given more confidence in the firmness of our governments. The interposition of the people
themselves on the side of government, has had a great effect on the opinion here. I am persuaded
myself, that the good sense of the people will always be found to be the best army. They may
be led astray for a moment, but will soon correct themselves. The people are the only censors
of their governors; and even their errors will tend to keep these to the true principles of
their institution. To punish these errors too severely, would be to suppress the only safeguard
of the public liberty. The way to prevent these irregular interpositions of the people, is
to give them full information of their affairs through the channel of the public papers, and
to contrive that those papers should penetrate the whole mass of the people. The basis of our
governments being the opinion of the people, the very first object should be to keep that right;
and were it left to me to decide, whether we should have a government without newspapers, or
newspapers without a government, I should not hesitate a moment to prefer the latter. But I
should mean, that every man should receive those papers, and be capable of reading them. I
am convinced that those societies (as the Indians), which live without government, enjoy in
their general mass an infinitely greater degree of happiness, than those who live under the
European governments. Among the former, public opinion is in the place of law, and restrains
morals as powerfully as laws ever did any where. Among the latter, under pretence of governing,
they have divided their nations into two classes, wolves and sheep. I do not exaggerate. This
is a true picture of Europe. Cherish, therefore, the spirit of our people, and keep alive their
attention. Do not be too severe upon their errors, but reclaim them by enlightening them. If
once they become inattentive to the public affairs, you, and I, and Congress, and Assemblies,
Judges and Governors, shall all become wolves. It seems to be the law of our general nature,
in spite of individual exceptions: and experience declares, that man is the only animal which
devours his own kind; for I can apply no milder term to the governments of Europe, and to the
general prey of the rich on the poor. The want of news has led me into disquisition instead
of narration, forgetting you have every day enough of that. I shall be happy to hear from you
sometimes, only observing, that whatever passes through the post is read, and that when you
write what should be read by myself only, you must be so good as to confide your letter to
some passenger, or officer of the packet.

Paris, January 30, 1787.

     [* The latter part of this letter is in cipher; but appended
     to the copy preserved, are explanatory notes, which have
     enabled us to publish it entire, except a few words, to
     which they afford no key. These are either marked thus * * *,
     or the words, which the context seemed to require, inserted
     in italics.]

Dear Sir,

My last to you was of the 16th of December; since which I have received yours of November the
25th and December the 4th, which afforded me, as your letters always do, a treat on matters
public, individual and economical. I am impatient to learn your sentiments on the late troubles
in the Eastern States. So far as I have yet seen, they do not appear to threaten serious consequences.
Those States have suffered by the stoppage of the channels of their commerce, which have not
yet found other issues. This must render money scarce, and make the people uneasy. This uneasiness
has produced acts absolutely unjustifiable: but I hope they will provoke no severities from
their governments. A consciousness of those in power, that their administration of the public
affairs has been honest, may, perhaps, produce too great a degree of indignation: and those
characters wherein fear predominates over hope, may apprehend too much from these instances
of irregularity. They may conclude too hastily, that nature has formed man insusceptible of
any other government than that of force, a conclusion not founded in truth nor experience.
Societies exist under three forms, sufficiently distinguishable. 1. Without government, as
among our Indians. 2. Under governments, wherein the will of every one has a just influence;
as is the case in England, in a slight degree, and in our States, in a great one. 3. Under
governments of force; as is the case in all other monarchies, and in most of the other republics.
To have an idea of the curse of existence under these last, they must be seen. It is a government
of wolves over sheep. It is a problem, not clear in my mind, that the first condition is not
the best. But I believe it to be inconsistent with any great degree of population. The second
state has a great deal of good in it. The mass of mankind under that enjoys a precious degree
of liberty and happiness. It has its evils too: the principal of which is the turbulence to
which it is subject. But weigh this against the oppressions of monarchy, and it becomes nothing.
Malo periculosam libertatem quam quietam servitutem. Even this evil is productive of good.
It prevents the degeneracy of government, and nourishes a general attention to the public affairs.
Unsuccessful rebellions, indeed, generally establish the encroachments on the rights of the
people, which have produced them.

If these transactions give me no uneasiness, I feel very differently at another piece of intelligence,
to wit, the possibility that the navigation of the Mississippi may be abandoned to Spain. I
never had any interest westward of the Allegany; and I never will have any. But I have had
great opportunities of knowing the character of the people who inhabit that country; and I
will venture to say, that the act which abandons the navigation of the Mississippi, is an act
of separation between the eastern and western country. It is a relinquishment of five parts
out of eight of the territory of the United States; an abandonment of the fairest subject for
the payment of our public debts, and the chaining those debts on our own necks, in perpetuum.
I have the utmost confidence in the honest intentions of those who concur in this measure;
but I lament their want of acquaintance with the character and physical advantages of the people,
who, right or wrong, will suppose their interests sacrificed on this occasion to the contrary
interests of that part of the confederacy in possession of present power. If they declare themselves
a separate people, we are incapable of a single effort to retain them. Our citizens can never
be induced, either as militia or as soldiers, to go there to cut the throats of their own brothers
and sons, or rather, to be themselves the subjects, instead of the perpetrators, of the parricide.
Nor would that country quit the cost of being retained against the will of its inhabitants,
could it be done. But it cannot be done. They are able already to rescue the navigation of
the Mississippi out of the hands of Spain, and to add New Orleans to their own, territory.
They will be joined by the inhabitants of Louisiana. This will bring on a war between them
and Spain; and that will produce the question with us, whether it will not be worth our while
to become parties with them in the war, in order to re-unite them with us, and thus correct
our error. And were I to permit my forebodings to go one step further, I should predict, that
the inhabitants of the United States would force their rulers to take the affirmative of that
question. I wish I may be mistaken in all these opinions.

We have for some time expected, that the Chevalier de la Luzerne would obtain a promotion in
the diplomatic line, by being appointed to some of the courts where this country keeps an ambassador.
But none of the vacancies taking place, which had been counted on, I think the present disposition
is to require his return to his station in America. He told me himself, lately, that he should
return in the spring. I have never pressed this matter on the court, though I knew it to be
desirable and desired on our part; because if the compulsion on him to return had been the
work of Congress, he would have returned in such ill temper with them, as to disappoint them
in the good they expected from it. He would for ever have laid at their door his failure of
promotion. I did not press it for another reason, which is, that I have great reason to believe,
that the character of the Count de Moutier, who would go, were the Chevalier to be otherwise
provided for, would give the most perfect satisfaction in America.

As you have now returned into Congress, it will become of importance, that you should form
a just estimate of certain public characters; on which, therefore, I will give you such notes
as my knowledge of them has furnished me with. You will compare them with the materials you
are otherwise possessed of, and decide on a view of the whole.

You know the opinion I formerly entertained of my friend, Mr. Adams. * * * and the Governor
were the first who shook that opinion. I afterwards saw proofs, which convicted him of a degree
of vanity, and of a blindness to it, of which no germ appeared in Congress. A seven months'
intimacy with him here and as many weeks in London, have given me opportunities of studying
him closely. He is so amiable, that I pronounce you will love him, if ever you become acquainted
with him. He would be, as he was, a great man in Congress.

Mr. Carmichael is, I think, very little known in America. I never saw him, and while I was
in Congress I formed rather a disadvantageous idea of him. His letters received then showed
him vain, and more attentive to ceremony and etiquette, than we suppose men of sense should
be. I have now a constant correspondence with him, and find him a little hypochondriac and
discontented. He possesses a very good understanding, though not of the first order. I have
had great opportunities of searching into his character, and have availed myself of them. Many
persons of different nations, coming from Madrid to Paris, all speak of him as in high esteem,
and I think it certain that he has more of the Count de Florida Blanca's friendship, than any
diplomatic character at that court. As long as this minister is in office, Carmichael can do
more than any other person who could be sent there.

You will see Franks, and doubtless he will be asking some appointment. I wish there may be
any one for which he is fit. He is light, indiscreet, active, honest, affectionate. Though
Bingham is not in diplomatic office, yet as he wishes to be so, I will mention such circumstances
of him, as you might otherwise be deceived in. He will make you believe he was on the most
intimate footing with the first characters in Europe, and versed in the secrets of every cabinet.
Not a word of this is true. He had a rage for being presented to great men, and had no * *
* in the methods by which he could effect it. * * * * *

The Marquis de la Fayette is a most valuable auxiliary to me. His zeal is unbounded, and his
weight with those in power, great. His education having been merely military, commerce was
an unknown field to him. But his good sense enabling him to comprehend perfectly whatever is
explained to him, his agency has been very efficacious. He has a great deal of sound genius,
is well remarked by the King, and rising in popularity. He has nothing against him, but the
suspicion of republican principles. I think he will one day be of the ministry. His foible
is a canine appetite for popularity and fame; but he will get above this. The Count de Vergennes
is ill. The possibility of his recovery renders it dangerous for us to express a doubt of it;
but he is in danger. He is a great minister in European affairs, but has very imperfect ideas
of our institutions, and no confidence in them. His devotion to the principles of pure despotism,
renders him unaffectionate to our governments. But his fear of England makes him value us as
a make-weight. He is cool, reserved in political conversations, but free and familiar on other
subjects, and a very attentive, agreeable person to do business with. It is impossible to have
a, clearer, better organized head; but age has chilled his heart,

Nothing should be spared on our part, to attach this country to us. It is the only one on which
we can rely for support, under every event. Its inhabitants love us more, I think, than they
do any other nation on earth. This is very much the effect of the good dispositions with which
the French officers returned. In a former letter, I mentioned to you the dislocation of my
wrist. I can make not the least use of it, except for the single article of writing, though
it is going on five months since the accident happened. I have great anxieties, lest I should
never recover any considerable use of it. I shall, by the advice of my surgeons, set out in
a fortnight for the waters of Aix, in Provence. I chose these out of several they proposed
to me, because if they fail to be effectual, my journey will not be useless altogether. It
will give me an opportunity of examining the canal of Languedoc, and of acquiring knowledge
of that species of navigation, which may be useful hereafter: but, more immediately, it will
enable me to make the tour of the ports concerned in commerce with us, to examine, on the spot,
the defects of the late regulations, respecting our commerce, to learn the further improvements
which may be made in it, and, on my return, to get this business finished. I shall be absent
between two and three months, unless anything happens to recall me here sooner, which may always
be effected in ten days, in whatever part of my route I may be.

In speaking of characters, I omitted those of Reyneval and Hennin, the two eyes of Count de
Vergennes. The former is the most important character, because possessing the most of the confidence
of the Count. He is rather cunning than wise, his views of things being neither great nor liberal.
He governs himself by principles which he has learned by rote, and is fit only for the details
of execution. His heart is susceptible of little passions, but not of good ones. He is brother-in-law
to M. Gerard, from whom he received disadvantageous impressions of us, which cannot be effaced.
He has much duplicity. Hennin is a philosopher, sincere, friendly, liberal, learned, beloved
by every body: the other by nobody. I think it a great misfortune that the United States are
in the department of the former. As particulars of this kind may be useful to you, in your
present situation, I may hereafter continue the chapter. I know it will be safely lodged in
your discretion. Feb. 5. Since writing thus far, Franks has returned from England. I learn
that Mr. Adams desires to be recalled, and that Smith should be appointed Chargé des Affaires
there. It is not for me to decide whether any diplomatic character should be kept at a court,
which keeps none with us. You can judge of Smith's abilities by his letters. They are not of
the first order, but they are good. For his honesty, he is like our friend Monroe; turn his
soul wrong side outwards, and there is not a speck on it. He has one foible, an excessive inflammability
of temper, but he feels it when it comes on, and has resolution enough to suppress it, and
to remain silent till it passes over.

I send you, by Colonel Franks, your pocket telescope, walking stick, and chemical box. The
two former could not be combined together. The latter could not be had in the form you referred
to. Having a great desire to have a portable copying machine, and being satisfied from some
experiment, that the principle of the large machine might be applied in a small one, I planned
one when in England, and had it made. It answers perfectly. I have since set a workman to making
them here, and they are in such demand that he has his hands full. Being assured that you will
be pleased to have one, when you shall have tried its convenience, I send you one by Colonel
Franks. The machine costs ninety-six livres, the appendages twenty-four livres, and I send
you paper and ink for twelve livres; in all, one hundred and thirty-two livres. There is a
printed paper of directions: but you must expect to make many essays before you succeed perfectly.
A soft brush, like a shaving-brush, is more convenient than the sponge. You can get as much
ink and paper as you please, from London. The paper costs a guinea a ream. I am, Dear Sir,
with sincere esteem and affection, your most obedient, humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XLV.--TO JOHN JAY, February 1, 1787

TO JOHN JAY.

Sir,

Paris, February 1, 1787.

My last letters were of the 31st of December and 9th of January; since which last date, I have
been honored with yours of December the 13th and 14th. I shall pay immediate attention to your
instructions relative to the South Carolina frigate. I had the honor of informing you of an
improvement in the art of coining, made here by one Drost, and of sending you, by Colonel Franks,
a specimen of his execution in gold and silver. I expected to have sent also a coin of copper.
The enclosed note from Drost will explain the reason why this was not sent. It will let you
see also, that he may be employed; as I suppose he is not so certain as he was of being engaged
here. Mr. Grand, who knows him, gives me reason to believe he may be engaged reasonably. Congress
will decide whether it be worth their attention.

In some of my former letters, I suggested an opportunity of obliging the court, by borrowing
as much money in Holland as would pay the debt due here, if such a loan could be obtained;
as to which, I was altogether ignorant. To save time, I wrote to Mr. Dumas, to know whether
he thought it probable a loan could be obtained, enjoining on him the strictest secrecy, and
informing him I was making the inquiry merely of my own motion, and without instruction. I
enclose you his answer. He thinks purchasers of the debt could be found, with a sacrifice of
a small part of the capital, and a postponement be obtained of some of the first reimbursements.
The proposition by him, for an immediate adoption of this measure by me, was probably urged,
on his mind by a desire to serve our country, more than a strict attention to my duty, and
the magnitude of the object. I hope, on the contrary, that if it should be thought worth a
trial, it may be put into the hands of Mr. Adams, who knows the ground, and is known there,
and whose former successful negotiations in this line would give better founded hopes of success
on this occasion.

I formerly mentioned to you the hopes of preferment, entertained by the Chevalier de la Luzerne.
They have been baffled by events; none of the vacancies taking place which had been expected.
Had I pressed his being ordered back, I have reason to believe the order would have been given.
But he would have gone back in ill humor with Congress, he would have laid for ever at their
door the failure of a promotion then viewed as certain; and this might have excited dispositions
that would have disappointed us of the good we hoped from his return. The line I have observed
with him has been, to make him sensible that nothing was more desired by Congress than his
return, but that they would not willingly press it, so as to defeat him of a personal advantage.
He sees his prospects fail, and will return in the approaching spring unless something unexpected
should turn up in his favor. In this case, the Count de Moutier has the promise of succeeding
to him, and if I do not mistake his character, he would give great satisfaction. So that I
think you may calculate on seeing one or the other, by midsummer.

It had been suspected that France and England might adopt those concerted regulations of commerce
for their West Indies, of which your letter expresses some apprehensions. But the expressions
in the 4th, 5th, 7th, 11th, 18th, and other articles of their treaty, which communicate to
the English the privileges of the most favored European nation only, has lessened, if not removed
those fears. They have clearly reserved a right of favoring, specially, any nation not European;
and there is no nation out of Europe, who could so probably have been in their eye at that
time, as ours. They are wise. They must see it probable, at least, that any concert with England
will be but of short duration; and they could hardly propose to sacrifice for that, a connection
with us, which may be perpetual.

We have been for some days, in much inquietude for the Count de Vergennes. He is very seriously
ill. Nature seems struggling to decide his disease into a gout. A swelled foot, at present
gives us a hope-of this issue. His loss would at all times have been great; but it would be
immense during the critical poise of European affairs, existing at this moment. I enclose you
a letter from one of the foreign officers, complaining of the non-payment of their interest.
It is only one out of many I have received. This is accompanied by a second copy of the Moorish
declaration sent me by Mr. Barclay. He went to Alicant to settle with Mr. Lambe; but on his
arrival there, found he was gone to Minorca. A copy of his letter will inform you of this circumstance,
and of some others relative to Algiers, with his opinion on them. Whatever the States may enable
Congress to do for obtaining the peace of that country, it is a separate question whether they
will redeem our captives, how, and at what price. If they decide to redeem them, I will beg
leave to observe, that it is of great importance that the first redemption be made at as low
a price as possible, because it will form the future tariff. If these pirates find that they
can have a very great price for Americans, they will abandon proportionably their pursuits
against other nations, to direct them towards ours. That the choice of Congress may be enlarged,
as to the instruments they may use for effecting the redemption, I think it my duty to inform
them, that there is here an order of priests called the Mathurins, the object of whose institution
is to beg alms for the redemption of captives. They keep members always in Barbary, searching
out the captives of their country, and redeem, I believe, on better terms than any other body,
public or private. It occurred to me, that their agency might be obtained for the redemption
of our prisoners at Algiers. I obtained conferences with the General, and with some members
of the order. The General, with all the benevolence and cordiality possible, undertook to act
for us if we should, desire it. He told me that their last considerable redemption was of about
three hundred prisoners, who cost them somewhat upwards of fifteen hundred livres apiece. But
that they should not be able to redeem ours, as cheap as they do their own; and that it must
be absolutely unknown that the public concern themselves in the operation, or the price would
be greatly enhanced. The difference of religion was not once mentioned, nor did it appear to
me to be thought of. It was a silent reclamation and acknowledgment of fraternity, between
two religions of the same family, which historical events of ancient date had rendered more
hostile to one another, than to their common adversaries. I informed the General, that I should
communicate the good dispositions of his order, to those who alone had the authority to decide
whatever related to our captives. Mr. Carmichael informs me, that monies have been advanced
for the support of our prisoners at Algiers, which ought to be replaced. I infer from the context
of his letter, that these advances have been made by the court of Madrid. I submit the information
to Congress.

A treaty of commerce is certainly concluded between France and Russia. The particulars of it
are yet secret.

Paris, February 7, 1787.

I know, Madam, that the twelve-month is not yet expired; but it will be, nearly, before this
will have the honor of being put into your hands. You are then engaged to tell me, truly and
honestly, whether you do not find the tranquil pleasures of America, preferable to the empty
bustle of Paris. For to what does that bustle tend? At eleven o'clock, it is day, chez madame,
the curtains are drawn. Propped on bolsters and pillows, and her head scratched into a little
order, the bulletins of the sick are read, and the billets of the well. She writes to some
of her acquaintance, and receives the visits of others. If the morning is not very thronged,
she is able to get out and hobble round the cage of the Palais Royal; but she must hobble quickly,
for the coiffeurs turn is come; and a tremendous turn it is! Happy, if he does not make her
arrive when dinner is half over! The torpitude of digestion a little passed, she flutters half
an hour through the streets, by way of paying visits, and then to the spectacles. These finished;
another half hour is devoted to dodging in and out of the doors of her very sincere friends,
and away to supper. After supper, cards and after cards, bed; to rise at noon the next day,
and to tread, like a mill-horse, the same trodden circle over again. Thus the days of life
are consumed, one by one, without an object beyond the present moment; ever flying from the
ennui of that, yet carrying it with us; eternally in pursuit of happiness, which keeps eternally
before us. If death or bankruptcy happen to trip us out of the circle, it is matter for the
buzz of the evening, and is completely forgotten by the next morning. In America, on the other
hand, the society of your husband, the fond cares for the children, the arrangements of the
house, the improvements of the grounds, fill every moment with a healthy and an useful activity.
Every exertion is encouraging, because to present amusement it joins the promise of some future
good. The intervals of leisure are filled by the society of real friends, whose affections
are not thinned to cobweb, by being spread over a thousand objects. This is the picture, in
the light it is presented to my mind; now let me have it in yours. If we do not concur this
year, we shall the next; or if not then, in a year or two more. You see I am determined not
to suppose myself mistaken.

To let you see that Paris is not changed in its pursuits, since it was honored with your presence,
I send you its monthly history. But this relating only to the embellishments of their persons,
I must add, that those of the city go on well also. A new bridge, for example, is begun at
the Place Louis Quinze; the old ones are clearing of the rubbish which encumbered them in the
form of houses 5 new hospitals erecting; magnificent walls of inclosure, and Custom-houses
at their entrances, &c. &c. &c. I know of no interesting change among those whom you honored
with your acquaintance, unless Monsieur de Saint James was of that number. His bankruptcy,
and taking asylum in the Bastille, have furnished matter of astonishment. His garden, at the
Pont de Neuilly, where, on seventeen acres of ground he had laid out fifty thousand louis,
will probably sell for somewhat less money. The workmen of Paris are making rapid strides towards
English perfection. Would you believe, that in the course of the last two years, they have
learned even to surpass their London rivals in some articles? Commission me to have you a phaeton
made, and if it is not as much handsomer than a London one, as that is than a fiacre, send
it back to me. Shall I fill the box with caps, bonnets, &c.? Not of my own choosing, but I
was going to say, of Mademoiselle Bertin's, forgetting for the moment, that she too is bankrupt.
They shall be chosen then by whom you please; or, if you are altogether nonplused by her eclipse,
we will call an Assemblées des Notables, to help you out of the difficulty, as is now the fashion.
In short, honor me with your, commands of any kind, and they shall be faithfully executed.
The packets now established from Havre to New York furnish good opportunities of sending whatever
you wish.

Paris, February 7, 1787.

I have the honor of enclosing to your Excellency a report of the proceedings on the inauguration
of the bust of the Marquis de la Fayette, in this city. This has been attended with a considerable,
but a necessary delay. The principle that the King is the sole fountain of honor in this country,
opposed a barrier to our desires, which threatened to be insurmountable. No instance of a similar
proposition from a foreign power, had occurred in their history. The admitting it in this case,
is a singular proof of the King's friendly dispositions towards the States of America, and
of his personal esteem for the character of the Marquis de la Fayette.

Paris, February 8, 1787.

Sir,

The packet being to sail the day after to-morrow, I have awaited the last possible moment of
writing by her, in hopes I might be able to announce some favorable change in the situation
of the Count de Vergennes. But none has occurred, and in the mean time he has become weaker
by the continuance of his illness. Though not desperately ill, he is dangerously so. The Comptroller
General, M. de Calonne, has been very ill also, but he is getting well. These circumstances
have occasioned the postponement of the Assemblée des Notables to the 14th instant, and will
probably occasion a further postponement. As I shall set out this day se'nnight for the waters
of Aix, you will probably hear the issue of the Count de Vergennes illness through some other
channel, before I shall have the honor of addressing you again. I may observe the same as to
the final decision for the enfranchisement of Honfleur, which is in a fair way of being speedily
concluded. The exertions of Monsieur de Creve-coeur, and particularly his influence with the
Duke d'Harcourt, the principal instrument in effecting it, have been of chief consequence in
this matter.

Paris, February 9, 1787.

Sir,

My last to you was dated December the 25th; since which I have been honored with your several
favors of December the 29th, January the 5th, 9th, and 23rd. I thought that your affairs could
not be more interesting than they have been for a considerable time. Yet in the present moment
they are become more so, by the apparent withdrawing of so considerable a personage in the
drama, as the King of Prussia. To increase this interest, another person, whose importance
scarcely admits calculation, is in a situation which fills us with alarm. Nature is struggling
to relieve him by a decided gout; she has my sincere prayers to aid her, as I am persuaded
she has yours. I have letters and papers from America as late as the 15th of December. The
government of Massachusetts had imprisoned three of the leaders of their insurgents. The insurgents,
being collected to the number of three or four hundred, had sent in their petition to the government,
praying another act of pardon for their leaders and themselves, and on this condition offering
to go every man home, and conduct himself dutifully afterwards. This is the latest intelligence.

I thank you for your attention to the question I had taken the liberty of proposing to you.
I think with you, that it would be advisable to have our debt transferred to individuals of
your country. There could and would be no objection to the guarantee remaining as you propose;
and a postponement of the first payments of capital would surely be a convenience to us. For
though the resources of the United States are great and growing, and their dispositions good,
yet their machine is new, and they have not got it to go well. It is the object of their general
wish at present, and they are all in movement, to set it in a good train; but their movements
are necessarily slow. They will surely effect it in the end, because all have the same end
in view; the difficulty being only to get all the thirteen States to agree on the same means.
Divesting myself of every partiality, and speaking from that thorough knowledge which I have
of the country, their resources, and their principles, I had rather trust money in their hands,
than in that of any government on earth; because, though for a while the payments of the interest
might be less regular, yet the final reimbursement of the capital would be more sure.

I set out next week for the south of France, to try whether some mineral waters in that quarter,
much recommended, will restore the use of my hand. I shall be absent from Paris two or three
months; but I take arrangements for the regular receipt of your favors, as if I were here.
It will be better, however, for you to put your letters to Mr. Jay under cover to Mr. Short,
who remains here, and will forward them.

I have thought it my duty to submit to Congress the proposition about the French debt, and
may expect their answer in four months.

Paris, February 14, 1787.

Sir,

In the letter of the 8th instant, which I had the honor of writing you, I informed you that
the Count de Vergennes was dangerously ill. He died yesterday morning, and the Count de Montmorin
is appointed his successor. Your personal knowledge of this gentleman renders it unnecessary
for me to say any thing of him.

Mr. Morris, during his office, being authorized to have the medals and swords executed, which
had been ordered by Congress, he authorized Colonel Humphreys to take measures here for the
execution. Colonel Humphreys did so; and the swords were finished in time for him to carry
them. The medals not being finished, he desired me to attend to them. The workman who was to
make that of General Greene, brought me yesterday the medal in gold, twenty-three in copper,
and the die. Mr. Short, during my absence, will avail himself of the first occasion which shall
offer, of forwarding the medals to you. I must beg leave, through you, to ask the pleasure
of Congress as to the number they would choose to have struck. Perhaps they might be willing
to deposite one of each person in every college of the United States. Perhaps they might choose
to give a series of them to each of the crowned heads of Europe, which would be an acceptable
present to them. They will be pleased to decide. In the mean time I have sealed up the die,
and shall retain it till I am honored with their orders as to this medal, and the others also
when they shall be finished.

Paris, February 23, 1787.

Sir,

The Assemblée des Notables being an event in the history of this country which excites notice,
I have supposed it would not be disagreeable to you to learn its immediate objects, though
no way connected with our interests. The Assembly met yesterday: the King, in a short but affectionate
speech, informed them of his wish to consult with them on the plans he had digested, and on
the general good of his people, and his desire to imitate the head of his family, Henry IV.,
whose memory is so dear to the nation. The Garde des Sceaux then spoke about twenty minutes,
chiefly in compliment to the orders present. The Comptroller General, in a speech of about
an hour, opened the budget, and enlarged on the several subjects which will be under their
deliberation. He explained the situation of the finances at his accession to office, the expenses
which their arrangement had rendered necessary, their present state with the improvements made
in them, the several plans which had been proposed for their further improvement, a change
in the form of some of their taxes, the removal of the interior Custom-houses to the frontiers,
and the institution of Provincial Assemblies. The Assembly was then divided into committees,
with a prince of the blood at the head of each. In this form they are to discuss separately
the subjects which will be submitted to them. Their decision will be reported by two members
to the minister, who, on view of the separate decisions of all the committees, will make such
changes in his plans, as will best accommodate them to their views, without too much departing
from his own, and will then submit them to the vote (but I believe not to the debate) of the
General Assembly, which will be convened for this purpose one day in every week, and will vote
individually.

The event ©f the Count de Vergennes'death, of which I had the honor to inform you in a letter
of the 14th instant, the appointment of the Count Montmorin, and the propriety of my attending
at his first audience, which will be on the 27th, have retarded the journey I had proposed
a few days.

I shall hope, on my return, to meet here new powers for the consular convention, as, under
those I have, it will be impossible to make the changes in the convention, which may be wished for.

Paris, February 28, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I am just now in the moment of my departure. Monsieur de Montmorin having given us audience
at Paris yesterday, I missed the opportunity of seeing you once more. I am extremely pleased
with his modesty, the simplicity of his manners, and his dispositions towards us. I promise
myself a great deal of satisfaction in doing business with him. I hope he will not give ear
to any unfriendly suggestions. I flatter myself I shall hear from you sometimes. Send your
letters to my hotel as usual, and they will be forwarded to me. I wish you success in your
meeting. I should form better hopes of it, if it were divided into two Houses instead of seven.
Keeping the good model of your neighboring country before your eyes, you may get on, step by
step, towards a good constitution. Though that model is not perfect, yet, as it would unite
more suffrages than any new one which could be proposed, it is better to make that the object.
If every advance is to be purchased by filling the royal coffers with gold, it will be gold
well employed. The King, who means so well, should be encouraged to repeat these Assemblies.
You see how we republicans are apt to preach, when we get on politics. Adieu, my dear friend.

Yours affectionately,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LIII.--TO MADAME LA COMTESSE DE TESSE, March 20, 1787

TO MADAME LA COMTESSE DE TESSE.

Nismes, March 20, 1787.

Here I am, Madam, gazing whole hours at the Maison Quarrée, like a lover at his mistress. The
stocking-weavers and silk-spinners around it, consider me as a hypochondriac Englishman, about
to write with a pistol the last chapter of his history. This is the second time I have been
in love since I left Paris. The first was with a Diana at the Chateau de Lay-Epinaye in Beaujolois,
a delicious morsel of sculpture, by M. A. Slodtz. This, you will say, was in rule, to fall
in love with a female beauty: but with a house! It is out of all precedent. No, Madam, it is
not without a precedent, in my own history. While in Paris, I was violently smitten with the
Hotel de Salm, and used to go to the Tuileries almost daily to look at it. The loueuse des
chaises, inattentive to my passion, never had the complaisance to place a chair there, so that,
sitting on the parapet, and twisting my neck round to see the object of my admiration, I generally
left it with a torticollis.

From Lyons to Nismes I have been nourished with the remains of Roman grandeur. They have always
brought you to my mind, because I know your affection for whatever is Roman and noble. At Vienne
I thought of you. But I am glad you were not there; for you would have seen me more angry than
I hope you will ever see me. The Praetorian palace, as it is called, comparable, for its fine
proportions, to the Maison Quarrée, defaced by the barbarians who have converted it to its
present purpose, its beautiful fluted Corinthian columns cut out in part to make space for
Gothic windows, and hewed down in the residue to the plane of the building, was enough, you
must admit, to disturb my composure. At Orange, too, I thought of you. I was sure you had seen
with pleasure the sublime triumphal arch of Marius at the entrance of the city. I went then
to the Arena. Would you believe, Madam, that in this eighteenth century, in France, under the
reign of Louis XVI., they are at this moment pulling down the circular wall of this superb
remain to pave a road? And that too from a hill which is itself an entire mass of stone, just
as fit, and more accessible? A former intendant, a M. de Basville, has rendered his memory
dear to the traveller and amateur, by the pains he took to preserve and restore these monuments
of antiquity. The present one (I do not know who he is) is demolishing the object to make a
good road to it. I thought of you again, and I was then in great good humor, at the Pont du
Gard, a sublime antiquity, and well preserved. But most of all here, where Roman taste, genius,
and magnificence excite ideas analogous to yours at every step. I could no longer oppose the
inclination to avail myself of your permission to write to you, a permission given with too
much complaisance by you, and used by me with too much indiscretion. Madame de Tott did me
the same honor.

But she being only the descendant of some of those puny heroes who boiled their own kettles
before the walls of Troy, I shall write to her from a Grecian, rather than a Roman canton:
when I shall find myself, for example, among her Phocæan relations at Marseilles.

Loving, as you do, Madam, the precious remains of antiquity, loving architecture, gardening,
a warm sun, and a clear sky, I wonder you have never thought of moving Chaville to Nismes.
This, as you know, has not always been deemed impracticable; and, therefore, the next time
a Surintendant des bailments du roi, after the example of M. Colbert, sends persons to Nismes
to move the Maison Quarrée to Paris, that they may not come empty-handed, desire them to bring
Chaville with them to replace it. A propos of Paris. I have now been three weeks from there,
without knowing any thing of what has passed. I suppose I shall meet it all at Aix, where I
have directed my letters to be lodged, poste restante. My journey has given me leisure to reflect
on this Assemblée des Notables. Under a good and a young King, as the present, I think good
may be made of it. I would have the deputies, then, by all means, so conduct themselves as
to encourage him to repeat the calls of this Assembly. Their first step should be to get themselves
divided into two chambers instead of seven; the Noblesse and the Commons separately. The second,
to persuade the King, instead of choosing the deputies of the Commons himself, to summon those
chosen by the people for the Provincial administrations. The third, as the Noblesse is too
numerous to be all of the Assemblée, to obtain permission for that body to choose its own deputies.
Two Houses, so elected, would contain a mass of wisdom, which would make the people happy,
and the King great; would place him in history where no other act can possibly place him. They
would thus put themselves in the track of the best guide they can follow, they would soon overtake
it, become its guide in turn, and lead to the wholesome modifications wanting in that model,
and necessary to constitute a rational government. Should they attempt more than the established
habits of the people are ripe for, they must lose all, and retard indefinitely the ultimate
object of their aim. These, Madam, are my opinions; but I wish to know yours, which I am sure
will be better.

From a correspondent at Nismes you will not expect news. Were I to attempt to give you news,
I should tell you stories one thousand years old. I should detail to you the intrigues of the
courts of the Cæsars, how they affect us here, the oppressions of their praetors, prefects,
&c. I am immersed in antiquities from morning to night. For me the city of Rome is actually
existing in all the splendor of its empire. I am filled with alarms for the event of the irruptions
daily making on us by the Goths, the Visigoths, Ostrogoths, and Vandals, lest they should re-conquer
us to our original barbarism. If I am sometimes induced to look forward to the eighteenth century,
it is only when recalled to it by the recollection of your goodness and friendship, and by
those sentiments of sincere esteem and respect, with which I have the honor to be,

Madam, your most obedient

and most humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LIV.--TO THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE, April 11, 1787

TO THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE.

Nice, April 11, 1787.

Your head, my dear friend, is full of Notable things; and being better employed, therefore,
I do not expect letters from you. I am constantly roving about to see what I have never seen
before, and shall never see again. In the great cities, I go to see what travellers think alone
worthy of being seen; but I make a job of it, and generally gulp it all down in a day. On the
other hand, I am never satiated with rambling through the fields and farms, examining the culture
and cultivators with a degree of curiosity, which makes some take me to be a fool, and others
to be much wiser than I am. I have been pleased to find among the people a less degree of physical
misery than I had expected. They are generally well clothed, and have a plenty of food, not
animal indeed, but vegetable, which is as wholesome. Perhaps they are over-worked, the excess
of the rent required by the landlord obliging them to too many hours of labor in order to produce
that, and wherewith to feed and clothe themselves. The soil of Champagne and Burgundy I have
found more universally good than I had expected, and as I could not help making a comparison
with England, I found that comparison more unfavorable to the latter than is generally admitted.
The soil, the climate, and the productions are superior to those of England, and the husbandry
as good, except in one point; that of manure. In England, long leases for twenty-one years,
or three lives, to wit, that of the farmer, his wife, and son, renewed by the son as soon as
he comes to the possession, for his own life, his wife's, and eldest child's, and so on, render
the farms there almost hereditary, make it worth the farmer's while to manure the lands highly,
and give the landlord an opportunity of occasionally making his rent keep pace with the improved
state of the lands. Here the leases are either during pleasure, or for three, six, or nine
years, which does not give the farmer time to repay himself for the expensive operation of
well manuring, and therefore, he manures ill, or not at all. I suppose, that could the practice
of leasing for three lives be introduced in the whole kingdom, it would, within the term of
your life, increase agricultural productions fifty per cent.; or were any one proprietor to
do it with his own lands, it would increase his rents fifty per cent, in the course of twenty-five
years. But I am told the laws do not permit it. The laws then, in this particular, are unwise
and unjust, and ought to give that permission. In the southern provinces, where the soil is
poor, the climate hot and dry, and there are few animals, they would learn the art, found so
precious in England, of making vegetable manure, and thus improving the provinces in the article
in which nature has been least kind to them. Indeed, these provinces afford a singular spectacle.
Calculating on the poverty of their soil, and their climate by its latitude only, they should
have been the poorest in France. On the contrary, they are the richest, from one fortuitous
circumstance. Spurs or ramifications of high mountains, making down from the Alps, and, as
it were, reticulating these provinces, give to the vallies the protection of a particular inclosure
to each, and the benefit of a general stagnation of the northern winds produced by the whole
of them, and thus countervail the advantage of several degrees of latitude. From the first
olive fields of Pierrelatte, to the orangeries of Hieres, has been continued rapture to me.
I have often wished for you. I think you have not made this journey. It is a pleasure you have
to come, and an improvement to be added to the many you have already made. It will be a great
comfort to you, to know, from your own inspection, the condition of all the provinces of your
own country, and it will be interesting to them at some future day, to be known to you. This
is, perhaps, the only moment of your life in which you can acquire that knowledge. And to do
it most effectually, you must be absolutely incognito, you must ferret the people out of their
hovels as I have done, look into their kettles, eat their bread, loll on their beds under pretence
of resting yourself, but in fact to find if they are soft. You will feel a sublime pleasure
in the course of this investigation, and a sublimer one hereafter, when you shall be able to
apply your knowledge to the softening of their beds, or the throwing a morsel of meat into
their kettle of vegetables.

You will not wonder at the subjects of my letter: they are the only ones which have been presented
to my mind for some time past; and the waters must always be what are the fountains from which
they flow. According to this, indeed, I should have intermixed, from beginning to end, warm
expressions of friendship to you. But, according to the ideas of our country, we do not permit
ourselves to speak even truths, when they may have the air of flattery. I content myself, therefore,
with saying once for all, that I love you, your wife, and children. Tell them so, and adieu.

Yours affectionately,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LV.--TO WILLIAM SHORT, April 12, 1787

TO WILLIAM SHORT.

Nice, April 12, 1787,

Dear Sir,

At Marseilles, they told me I should encounter the rice fields of Piedmont soon after crossing
the Alps. Here they tell me there are none nearer than Vercelli and Novara, which is carrying
me almost to Milan. I fear that this circumstance will occasion me a greater delay than I had
calculated on. However, I am embarked in the project, and shall go through with it. To-morrow,
I set out on my passage over the Alps, being to pursue it ninety-three miles to Coni, on mules,
as the snows are not yet enough melted to admit carriages to pass. I leave mine here, therefore,
proposing to return by water from Genoa. I think it will be three weeks before I get back to
Nice. I find this climate quite as delightful as it has been represented. Hieres is the only
place in France, which may be compared with it. The climates are equal. In favor of this place,
are the circumstances of gay and dissipated society, a handsome city, good accommodations,
and some commerce. In favor of Hieres, are environs of delicious and extensive plains, a society
more contracted, and therefore more capable of esteem, and the neighborhood of Toulon, Marseilles,
and other places, to which excursions may be made. Placing Marseilles in comparison with Hieres,
it has extensive society, a good theatre, freedom from military control, and the most animated
commerce. But its winter climate is far inferior.

Marseilles, May 4, 1787.

Sir,

I had the honor of receiving at Aix, your letter of February the 9th, and immediately wrote
to the Count de Montmorin, explaining the delay of the answer of Congress to the King's letter,
and desired Mr. Short to deliver that answer, with my letter, to Monsieur de Montmorin, which
he informs me he has accordingly done.

My absence prevented my noting to you, in the first moment, the revolution which has taken
place at Paris, in the department of finance, by the substitution of Monsieur de Fourqueux
in the place of Monsieur de Calonne; so that you will have heard of it through other channels,
before this will have the honor of reaching you.

Having staid at Aix long enough to prove the inefficacy of the waters, I came on to this place,
for the purpose of informing myself here, as I mean to do at the other seaport towns, of whatever
may be interesting to our commerce. So far as carried on in our own bottoms, I find it almost
nothing; and so it must probably remain, till something can be done with the Algerines. Though
severely afflicted with the plague, they have come out within these few days, and showed themselves
in force along the coast of Genoa, cannonading a little town and taking several vessels.

Among other objects of inquiry, this was the place to learn something more certain on the subject
of rice, as it is a great emporium for that of the Levant, and of Italy. I wished particularly
to know, whether it was the use of a different machine for cleaning, which brought European
rice to market less broken than ours, as had been represented to me, by those who deal in that
article in Paris. I found several persons who had passed through the rice country of Italy,
but not one who could explain to me the nature of the machine. But I was given to believe,
that I might see it myself immediately on entering Piedmont. As this would require but about
three weeks, I determined to go, and ascertain this point; as the chance only of placing our
rice above all rivalship in quality, as it is in color, by the introduction of a better machine,
if a better existed, seemed to justify the application of that much time to it. I found the
rice country to be in truth Lombardy, one hundred miles further than had been represented,
and that though called Piedmont rice, not a grain is made in the country of Piedmont. I passed
through the rice-fields of the Vercellese and Milanese, about sixty miles, and returned from
thence last night, having found that the machine is absolutely the same as ours, and of course,
that we need not listen more to that suggestion. It is a difference in the species of grain;
of which the government of Turin is so sensible, that, as I was informed, they prohibit the
exportation of rough rice, on pain of death. I have taken measures, however, which I think
will not fail, for obtaining a quantity of it, and I bought on the spot a small parcel, which
I have with me. As further details on this subject to Congress would be misplaced, I propose,
on my return to Paris, to communicate them, and send the rice to the society at Charleston
for promoting agriculture, supposing that they will be best able to try the experiment of cultivating
the rice of this quality, and to communicate the species to the two States of South Carolina
and Georgia, if they find it answers. I thought the staple of these two States was entitled
to this attention, and that it must be desirable to them, to be able to furnish rice of the
two qualities demanded in Europe, especially, as the greater consumption is in the forms for
which the Lombardy quality is preferred. The mass of our countrymen being interested in agriculture,
I hope I do not err in supposing, that in a time of profound peace, as the present, to enable
them to adapt their productions to the market, to point out markets for them, and endeavor
to obtain favorable terms of reception, is within the line of my duty.

My journey into this part of the country has procured me information, which I will take the
liberty of communicating to Congress. In October last, I received a letter, dated Montpelier,
October the 2nd, 1786, announcing to me that the writer was a foreigner, who had a matter of
very great consequence to communicate to me, and desired I would indicate the channel through
which it might pass safely. I did so.

I received soon after, a letter in the following words, omitting only the formal parts. [A
translation of it is here given.]

'I am a native of Brazil. You are not ignorant of the frightful slavery under which my country
groans. This continually becomes more insupportable, since the epoch of your glorious independence;
for the cruel Portuguese omit nothing which can render our condition more wretched, from an
apprehension that we may follow your example. The conviction, that these usurpers against the
laws of nature and humanity only meditate new oppressions, has decided us to follow the guiding
light which you have held out to us, to break our chains, to revive our almost expiring liberty,
which is nearly overwhelmed by that force, which is the sole foundation of the authority that
Europeans exercise over America. But it is necessary that some power should extend assistance
to the Brazilians, since Spain would certainly unite herself with Portugal; and in spite of
our advantages for defence, we could not make it effectual, or, at least, it would be imprudent
to hazard the attempt, without some assurance of success. In this state of affairs, Sir, we
can, with propriety, look only to the United States, not only because we are following her
example, but, moreover, because nature, in making us inhabitants of the same continent, has
in some sort united us in the bonds of a common patriotism. On our part, we are prepared to
furnish the necessary supplies of money, and at all times to acknowledge the debt of gratitude
due to our benefactors. I have thus, Sir, laid before you a summary of my views. It is in discharge
of this commission that I have come to France, since I could not effect it in America without
exciting suspicion. It now remains for you to decide whether those views can be accomplished.
Should you desire to consult your nation on them, it is in my power to give you all the information
you may require.'

As by this time, I had been advised to try the waters of Aix, I wrote to the gentleman my design,
and that I would go off my road as far as Nismes, under the pretext of seeing the antiquities
of that place, if he would meet me there. He met me, and the following is the sum of the information
I received from him. 'Brazil contains as many inhabitants as Portugal. They are, 1. Portuguese.
2. Native whites. 3. Black and mulatto slaves. 4. Indians, civilized and savage. 1. The Portuguese
are few in number, mostly married there, have lost sight of their native country, as well as
the prospect of returning to it, and are disposed to become independent. 2. The native whites
form the body of their nation. 3. The slaves are as numerous as the free. 4. The civilized
Indians have no energy, and the savage would not meddle. There are twenty thousand regular
troops. Originally these were Portuguese. But as they died off, they were replaced by natives,
so that these compose at present the mass of the troops, and may be counted on by their native
country. The officers are partly Portuguese, partly Brazilians: their bravery is not doubted,
and they understand the parade, but not the science of their profession. They have no bias
for Portugal, but no energy either for any thing. The priests are partly Portuguese, partly
Brazilians, and will not interest themselves much. The Noblesse are scarcely known as such.
They will, in no manner, be distinguished from the people. The men of letters are those most
desirous of a revolution. The people are not much under the influence of their priests, most
of them read and write, possess arms, and are in the habit of using them for hunting. The slaves
will take the side of their masters. In short, as to the question of revolution, there is but
one mind in that Country. But there appears no person capable of conducting a revolution, or
willing to venture himself at its head, without the aid of some powerful nation, as the people
of their own might fail them. There is no printing press in Brazil. They consider the North
American revolution as a precedent for theirs. They look to the United States as most likely
to give them honest support, and, from a variety of considerations, have the strongest prejudices
in our favor. This informant is a native and inhabitant of Rio Janeiro, the present metropolis,
which contains fifty thousand inhabitants, knows well St. Salvador, the former one, and the
mines d'or, which are in the centre of the country. These are all for a revolution; and, constituting
the body of the nation, the other parts will follow them, The King's fifth of the mines, yields
annually thirteen millions of crusadoes or half dollars. He has the sole right of searching
for diamonds and other precious stones, which yield him about half as much. His income from
those two resources alone, then, is about ten millions of dollars annually; but the remaining
part of the produce of the mines, being twenty-six millions, might be counted on for effecting
a revolution. Besides the arms in the hands of the people, there are public magazines. They
have abundance of horses, but only a part of their country would admit the service of horses.
They would want cannon, ammunition, ships, sailors, soldiers, and officers, for which they
are disposed to look to the United States, it being always understood, that every service and
furniture will be well paid. Corn costs about twenty livres the one hundred pounds. They have
flesh in the greatest abundance, insomuch, that in some parts, they kill beeves for the skin
only. The whale fishery is carried on by Brazilians altogether, and not by Portuguese; but
in very small vessels, so that the fishermen know nothing of managing a large ship. They would
want of us; at all times, shipping, corn, and salt fish. The latter is a great article, and
they are at present supplied with it from Portugal. Portugal being without either army or navy,
could not attempt an invasion under a twelvemonth. Considering of what it would be composed,
it would not be much to be feared, and if it failed, they would probably never attempt a second.
Indeed, this source of their wealth being intercepted, they are scarcely capable of a first
effort. The thinking part of the nation are so sensible of this, that they consider an early
separation inevitable. There is an implacable hatred between the Brazilians and Portuguese;
to reconcile which, a former minister adopted the policy of letting the Brazilians into a participation
of public offices; but subsequent administrations have reverted to the ancient policy of keeping
the administrations in the hands of native Portuguese. There is a mixture of natives, of the
old appointments, still remaining in office. If Spain should invade them on their southern
extremities, these are so distant from the body of their settlements, that they could not penetrate
thence; and Spanish enterprise is not formidable. The mines d'or are among mountains, inaccessible
to any army; and Rio Janeiro is considered the strongest port in the world after Gibraltar.
In case of a successful revolution, a republican government in a single body would probably
be established.'

I took care to impress on him, through the whole of our conversation, that I had neither instructions
nor authority to say a word to any body on this subject, and that I could only give him my
own ideas, as a single individual: which were, that we were not in a condition at present to
meddle nationally in any war; that we wished particularly to cultivate the friendship of Portugal,
with whom we have an advantageous commerce. That yet, a successful revolution in Brazil could
not be uninteresting to us. That prospects of lucre might possibly draw numbers of individuals
to their aid, and purer motives our officers, among whom are many excellent. That our citizens
being free to leave their own country individually, without the consent of their governments,
are equally free to go to any other.

A little before I received the first letter of the Brazilian, a gentleman informed me there
was a Mexican in Paris, who wished to have some conversation with me. He accordingly called
on me. The substance of the information I drew from him, was as follows. He is himself a native
of Mexico, where his relations are, principally. He left it about seventeen years of age, and
seems now to be about thirty-three or thirty-four. He classes and characterizes the inhabitants
of that country, as follows. 1. The natives of Old Spain, possessed of most of the offices
of government, and firmly attached to it. 2. The clergy, equally attached to the government.
3. The natives of Mexico, generally disposed to revolt, but without instruction, without energy,
and much under the dominion of their priests. 4. The slaves, mulatto and black; the former
enterprising and intelligent, the latter brave, and of very important weight, into whatever
scale they throw themselves; but he thinks they will side with their masters. 5. The conquered
Indians, cowardly, not likely to take any side, nor important which they take. 6. The free
Indians, brave and formidable, should they interfere, but not likely to do so, as being at
a great distance. I asked him the numbers of these several classes, but he could not give them.
The first, he thought very inconsiderable; that the second formed the body of the freemen;
the third equal to the two first; the fourth, to all the preceding: and as to the fifth, he
could form no idea of their proportion. Indeed, it appeared to me, that his conjectures as
to the others were on loose grounds. He said he knew from good information, there were three
hundred thousand inhabitants in the city of Mexico. I was still more cautious with him than
with the Brazilian, mentioning it as my private opinion (unauthorized to say a word on the
subject, otherwise), that a successful revolution was still at a distance with them; that I
feared they must begin by enlightening and emancipating the minds of their people; that as
to us, if Spain should give us advantageous terms of commerce, and remove other difficulties,
it was not probable that we should relinquish certain and present advantages, though smaller,
for uncertain and future ones, however great. I was led into this caution by observing, that
this gentleman was intimate at the Spanish ambassador's, and that he was then at Paris, employed
by Spain to settle her boundaries with France, on the Pyrenees. He had much the air of candor,
but that can be borrowed; so that I was not able to decide about him in my own mind.

Led by a unity of subject, and a desire to give Congress as general a view of the disposition
of our southern countrymen, as my information enables me, I will add an article which, old
and insulated, I did not think important enough to mention at the time I received it. You will
remember, Sir, that during the late war, the British papers often gave details of a rebellion
in Peru. The character of those papers discredited the information. But the truth was, that
the insurrections were so general, that the event was long on the poise. Had Commodore Johnson,
then expected on that coast, touched and landed there two thousand men, the dominion of Spain
in that country would have been at an end. They only wanted a point of union, which this body
would have constituted. Not having this, they acted without concert, and were are length subdued
separately. This conflagration was quenched in blood; two hundred thousand souls, on both sides,
having perished; but the remaining matter is very capable of combustion. I have this information
from a person who was on the spot at the time, and whose good faith, understanding, and means
of information leave no doubt of the facts. He observed, however, that the numbers above supposed
to have perished were on such conjectures only as he could collect.

I trouble Congress with these details, because, however distant we may be, both in condition
and dispositions, from taking an active part in any commotions in that country, nature has
placed it too near us to make its movements altogether indifferent to our interests, or to
our curiosity.

I hear of another Arrêt of this court, increasing the duties on foreign stock-fish, and the
premium on their own imported into their islands; but not having yet seen it, I can say nothing
certain on it. I hope the effect of this policy will be defeated by the practice which, I am
told, takes place on the Banks of Newfoundland, of putting our fish into the French fishing-boats,
and the parties sharing the premium, instead of ours paying the duty.

I am in hopes Mr. Short will be able to send you the medals of General Gates by this packet.
I await a general instruction as to these medals. The academies of Europe will be much pleased
to receive each a set.

Marseilles, May 6, 1787.

Sir,

A desire of seeing a commerce commenced between the dominions of his Majesty, the King of Sardinia,
and the United States of America, and a direct exchange of their respective productions, without
passing through a third nation, led me into the conversation which I had the honor of having
with you on that subject, and afterwards with Monsieur Tallon at Turin, to whom I promised
that I would explain to you, in writing, the substance of what passed between us. The articles
of your produce wanted with us are brandies, wines, oil, fruits, and manufactured silks: those
with which we can furnish you are indigo, potash, tobacco, flour, salt-fish, furs and peltries,
ships and materials for building them. The supply of tobacco, particularly, being in the hands
of government solely, appeared to me to offer an article for beginning immediately the experiment
of direct commerce. That of the first quality can be had at first hand only from James river
in Virginia; those of the second and third from the same place, and from Baltimore in Maryland.
The first quality is delivered in the ports of France at thirty-eight livres the quintal, the
second at thirty-six livres, the third at thirty-four livres, weight and money of France, by
individuals generally. I send you the copy of a large contract, wherein the three qualities
are averaged at thirty-six livres. They may be delivered at Nice for those prices. Indeed,
it is my opinion, that by making shipments of your own produce to those places, and buying
the tobaccos on the spot, they may be had more advantageously. In this case, it would be expedient
that merchants of Nice, Turin, and America, should form a joint concern for conducting the
business in the two countries. Monsieur Tallon desired me to point out proper persons in America
who might be addressed for this purpose. The house of the most extensive reputation, concerned
in the tobacco trade, and on the firmest funds, is that of Messrs. Ross and Pleasants at Richmond,
in Virginia. If it should be concluded on your part to make any attempt of this kind, and to
address yourselves to these gentlemen, or any others, it would be best to write them your ideas,
and receive theirs, before you make either purchases or shipments. A more hasty conduct might
occasion loss, and retard, instead of encouraging, the establishment of this commerce. I would
undertake to write, at the same time, to these or any other merchants whom you should prefer,
in order to dispose them favorably, and as disinterestedly as possible, for the encouragement
of this essay. I must observe to you, that our vessels are fearful of coming into the Mediterranean
on account of the Algerines: and that if you should freight vessels, those of the French will
be most advantageous for you, because received into our ports without paying any duties on
some of those articles, and lighter than others on all of them. English vessels, on the other
hand, are distinguished by paying heavier duties than those of any other nation. Should you
desire any further information, or to pass letters with certainty to any mercantile house in
America, do me the favor to address yourselves to me at Paris, and I shall do whatever depends
on me for this object.

I have the honor to be, with sentiments of high esteem and respect, Sir, your most obedient,
humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

MEMORANDA TAKEN ON A JOURNEY FROM PARIS IN 1787

Memoranda taken on a Journey from Paris into the Southern Parts of France, and Northern of
Italy, in the year 1787.

CHAMPAGNE. March 3. Sens to Vermanton. The face of the country is in large hills, not too steep
for the plough, somewhat resembling the Elk hill and Beaver-dam hills of Virginia. The soil
is generally a rich mulatto loam, with a mixture of coarse sand, and some loose stone. The
plains of the Yonne are of the same color. The plains are in corn, the hills in vineyard, but
the wine not good. There are a few apple-trees, but none of any other kind, and no enclosures.
No cattle, sheep, or swine; fine mules.

Few chateaux; no farm-houses, all the people being gathered in villages. Are they thus collected
by that dogma of their religion, which makes them believe, that to keep the Creator in good
humor with his own works, they must mumble a mass every day? Certain it is, that they are less
happy and less virtuous in villages, than they would be insulated with their families on the
grounds they cultivate. The people are illy clothed. Perhaps they have put on their worst clothes
at this moment, as it is raining. But I observe women and children carrying heavy burthens,
and laboring with the hoe. This is an unequivocal indication of extreme poverty. Men, in a
civilized country, never expose their wives and children to labor above their force and sex,
as long as their own labor can protect them from it. I see few beggars. Probably this is the
effect of a police.

BURGUNDY. March 4. Lucy-le-Bois. Cussy-les-Forges. Rouvray. Maison-neuve. Vitieaux. La Chaleure.
Pont de Panis. Dijon. The hills are higher, and more abrupt. The soil a good red loam and sand,
mixed with more or less grit, small stone, and sometimes rock. All in corn. Some forest wood
here and there, broom, whins, and holly, and a few enclosures of quick-hedge. Now and then
a flock of sheep.

The people are well clothed, but it is Sunday. They have the appearance of being well fed.
The Chateau de Sevigny, near Cussy-les-Forges, is a charming situation. Between Maison-neuve
and Vitteaux the road leads through an avenue of trees, eight American miles long, in a right
line. It is impossible to paint the ennui of this avenue. On the summits of the hills, which
border the valley in which Vitteaux is, there is a parapet of rock, twenty, thirty, or forty
feet perpendicular, which crowns the hills. The tops are nearly level, and appear to be covered
with earth. Very singular. Great masses of rock in the hills between La Chaleure and Pont de
Panis, and a conical hill in the approach to the last place.

Dijon. The tavern price of a bottle of the best wine (e. g. of Vaune) is four livres. The best
round potatoes here, I ever saw. They have begun a canal thirty feet wide, which is to lead
into the Saone at ---------. It is fed by springs. They are not allowed to take any water out
of the riviere d'Ouche, which runs through this place, on account of the mills on that river.
They talk of making a canal to the Seine, the nearest navigable part of which, at present,
is fifteen leagues from hence. They have very light wagons here for the transportation of their
wine. They are long and narrow; the fore-wheels as high as the hind. Two pieces of wine are
drawn by one horse in one of these wagons. The road in this part of the country is divided
into portions of forty or fifty feet by stones, numbered, which mark the task of the laborers.

March 7 and 8. From La Baraque to Chagny. On the left are plains, which extend to the Saone;
on the right the ridge of mountains, called the Cote. The plains are of a reddish-brown, rich
loam, mixed with much small stone. The Cote has for its basis a solid rock, on which is about
a foot of soil and small stone, in equal quantities, the soil red, and of middling quality.
The plains are in corn; the Cote in vines. The former have no enclosures, the latter is in
small ones, of dry stone wall. There is a good deal of forest. Some small herds of small cattle
and sheep. Fine mules, which come from Provence, and cost twenty louis. They break them at
two years old, and they last to thirty.

The corn-lands here rent for about fifteen livres the arpent. They are now planting, pruning,
and sticking their vines. When a new vineyard is made, they plant the vines in gutters about
four feet apart. As the vines advance, they lay them down. They put out new shoots, and fill
all the intermediate space, till all trace of order is lost. They have ultimately about one
foot square to each vine. They begin to yield good profit at five or six years old, and last
one hundred, or one hundred and fifty years. A vigneron at Volnay carried me into his vineyard,
which was of about ten arpents. He told me, that some years it produced him sixty pieces of
wine, and some not more than three pieces. The latter is the most advantageous produce, because
the wine is better in quality, and higher in price, in proportion as less is made; and the
expenses, at the same time, diminish in the same proportion. Whereas, when much is made, the
expenses are increased, while the quality and price become less. In very plentiful years, they
often give one half the wine for casks to contain the other half. The cask for two hundred
and fifty bottles costs six livres in scarce years, and ten in plentiful. The feuillette is
of one hundred and twenty-five bottles, the piece of two hundred and fifty, and the queue or
botte of five hundred. An arpent rents at from twenty to sixty livres. A farmer of ten arpents
has about three laborers engaged by the year. He pays four louis to a man, and half as much
to a woman, and feeds them. He kills one hog, and salts it, which is all the meat used in the
family during the year. Their ordinary food is bread and vegetables. At Pomard and Volnay,
I observed them eating good wheat bread; at Meursault, rye. I asked the reason of the difference.
They told me, that the white wines fail in quality much oftener than the red, and remain on
hand. The farmer, therefore, cannot afford to feed his laborers so well. At Meursault only
white wines are made, because there is too much stone for the red. On such slight circumstances
depends the condition of man! The wines which have given such celebrity to Burgundy grow only
on the Cote, an extent of about five leagues long, and half a league wide. They begin at Chambertin,
and go through Vougeau, Romanie, Veaune, Nuits, Beaune, Pomard, Volnay, Meursault, and end
at Monrachet. Those of the two last are white; the others red. Chambertin, Vougeau, and Beaune
are the strongest, and will bear transportation and keeping. They sell, therefore, on the spot
for twelve hundred livres the queue, which is forty-eight sous the bottle. Volnay is the best
of the other reds, equal in flavor to Chambertin, &c., but being lighter, will not keep, and
therefore sells for not more than three hundred livres the queue, which is twelve sous the
bottle. It ripens sooner than they do, and consequently is better for those who wish to broach
at a year old. In like manner of the white wines, and for the same reason, Monrachet sells
for twelve hundred livres the queue (forty-eight sous the bottle), and Meursault of the best
quality, viz. the Goutte d'or, at only one hundred and fifty livres (six sous the bottle).
It is remarkable, that the best of each kind, that is, of the red and white, is made at the
extremities of the line, to wit, at Chambertin and Monrachet. It is pretended, that the adjoining
vineyards produce the same qualities, but that, belonging to obscure individuals, they have
not obtained a name, and therefore sell as other wines. The aspect of the Cote is a little
south of east. The western side is also covered with vines, and is apparently of the same soil;
yet the wines are only of the coarsest kinds. Such, too, are those which are produced in the
plains; but there the soil is richer, and less strong. Vougeau is the property of the monks
of Citeaux, and produces about two hundred pieces. Monrachet contains about fifty arpents,
and produces, one year with another, about one hundred and twenty pieces. It belongs to two
proprietors only, Monsieur de Clarmont, who leases to some wine-merchants, and the Marquis
de Sarsnet, of Dijon, whose part is farmed to a Monsieur de la Tour, whose family, for many
generations, have had the farm. The best wines are carried to Paris by land. The transportation
costs thirty-six livres the piece. The more indifferent go by water. Bottles cost four and
a half sous each.

March 9. Chalons. Sennecey. Tournus. St. Albin. Macon. On the left are the fine plains of the
Saone; on the right high lands, rather waving than hilly, sometimes sloping gently to the plains,
sometimes dropping down in precipices, and occasionally broken into beautiful vallies[sp.]
by the streams which run into the Saone. The plains are a dark rich loam, in pasture and corn;
the heights more or less red or reddish, always gritty, of middling quality only, their sides
in vines, and their summits in corn. The vineyards are enclosed with dry stone-walls, and there
are some quick-hedges in the corn-grounds. The cattle are few and indifferent. There are some
good oxen, however. They draw by the head. Few sheep, and small. A good deal of wood-lands.

I passed three times the canal called Le Charollois, which they are opening from Chalons on
the Saone to Dijon on the Loire. It passes near Chagny, and will be twenty-three leagues long.
They have worked on it three years, and will finish it in four more. It will reanimate the
languishing commerce of Champagne and Burgundy, by furnishing a water transportation for their
wines to Nantes, which also will receive new consequence by becoming the emporium of that commerce.
At some distance on the right are high mountains, which probably form the separation between
the waters of the Saone and Loire. Met a malefactor in the hands of one of the Marichausee;
perhaps a dove in the talons of the hawk. The people begin now to be in separate establishments,
and not in villages. Houses are mostly covered with tile.

BEAUJOLOIS.[Sp.] Maison Blanche. St. George. Chateau de Laye-Epinaye. The face of the country
is like that from Chalons to Macon. The plains are a dark rich loam, the hills a red loam of
middling quality, mixed generally with more or less coarse sand and grit, and a great deal
of small stone. Very little forest. The vineyards are mostly enclosed with dry stone-wall.
A few small cattle and sheep. Here, as in Burgundy, the cattle are all white. This is the richest
country I ever beheld. It is about ten or twelve leagues in length, and three, four, or five
in breadth; at least that part of it, which is under the eye of a traveller. It extends from
the top of a ridge of mountains, running parallel with the Saone, and sloping down to the plains
of that river, scarce any where too steep for the plough. The whole is thick set with farm-houses,
chateaux, and the bastides of the inhabitants of Lyons. The people live separately, and not
in villages. The hill-sides are in vine and corn: the plains in corn and pasture. The lands
are farmed either for money, or on half-stocks. The rents of the corn-lands, farmed for money,
are about ten or twelve livres the arpent. A farmer takes perhaps about one hundred and fifty
arpents, for three, six, or nine years. The first year they are in corn; the second in other
small grain, with which he sows red clover. The third is for the clover. The spontaneous pasturage
is of greensward, which they call fromenteau. When lands are rented on half-stocks, the cattle,
sheep, &c. are furnished by the landlord. They are valued, and must be left of equal value.
The increase of these, as well as the produce of the farm is divided equally. These leases
are only from year to year. They have a method of mixing beautifully the culture of vines,
trees, and corn. Rows of fruit-trees are planted about twenty feet apart. Between the trees,
in the row, they plant vines four feet apart, and espalier them. The intervals are sowed alternately
in corn, so as to be one year in corn, the next in pasture, the third in corn, the fourth in
pasture, &c. One hundred toises of vines in length, yield generally about four pieces of wine.
In Dauphine, I am told, they plant vines only at the roots of the trees, and let them cover
the whole trees. But this spoils both the wine and the fruit. Their wine, when distilled, yields
but one-third its quantity in brandy. The wages of a laboring man here are five louis; of a
woman, one half. The women do not work with the hoe: they only weed the vines, the corn, &c,
and spin. They speak a patois very difficult to understand. I passed some time at the Chateau
de Laye-Epinaye. Monsieur de Laye has a seignory of about fifteen thousand arpents, in pasture,
corn, vines, and wood. He has over this, as is usual, a certain jurisdiction, both criminal
and civil. But this extends only to the first crude examination, which is before his judges.
The subject is referred, for final examination and decision, to the regular judicatures of
the country. The Seigneur is keeper of the peace on his domains. He is therefore subject to
the expenses of maintaining it. A criminal prosecuted to sentence and execution costs M. de
Laye about five thousand livres. This is so burthensome to the Seigneurs, that they are slack
in criminal prosecutions. A good effect from a bad cause. Through all Champagne, Burgundy,
and the Beaujolois, the husbandry seems good, except that they manure too little. This proceeds
from the shortness of their leases. The people of Burgundy and Beaujolois are well clothed,
and have the appearance of being well fed. But they experience all the oppressions which result
from the nature of the general government, and from that of their particular tenures, and of
the seignorial government to which they are subject. What a cruel reflection, that a rich country
cannot long be a free one. M. de Laye has a Diana and Endymion, a very superior morsel of sculpture
by Michael Angelo Slodtz, done in 1740. The wild gooseberry is in leaf; the wild pear and sweet-briar
in bud.

Lyons. There are some feeble remains here of an amphitheatre of two hundred feet diameter,
and of an aqueduct in brick. The Pont d'Ainay has nine arches of forty feet from centre to
centre. The piers are of six feet. The almond is in bloom.

DAUPHINE. From St. Fond to Mornant. March 15, 16, 17, 18. The Rhone makes extensive plains,
which lie chiefly on the eastern side, and are often in two stages. Those of Montelimart are
three,or four miles wide, and rather good. Sometimes, as in the neighborhood of Vienne, the
hills come in precipices to the river, resembling then very much our Susquehanna and its hill,
except that the Susquehanna is ten times as wide as the Rhone. The highlands are often very
level. The soil both of hill and plain, where there is soil, is generally tinged, more or less,
with red. The hills are sometimes mere masses of rock, sometimes a mixture of loose stone and
earth. The plains are always stony, and as often as otherwise covered perfectly with a coat
of round stones, of the size of the fist, so as to resemble the remains of inundations, from
which all the soil has been carried away. Sometimes they are middling good, sometimes barren.
In the neighborhood of Lyons there is more corn than wine. Towards Tains more wine than corn.
From thence the plains, where best, are in corn, clover, almonds, mulberries, walnuts: where
there is still some earth, they are in corn, almonds, and oaks. The hills are in vines. There
is a good deal of forest-wood near Lyons, but not much afterwards. Scarcely any enclosures.
There are a few small sheep before we reach Tains; there the'number increases.

Nature never formed a country of more savage aspect, than that on both sides the Rhone. A huge
torrent rushes like an arrow between high precipices, often of massive rock, at other times
of loose stone, with but little earth. Yet has the hand of man subdued this savage scene, by
planting corn where there is a little fertility, trees where there is still less, and vines
where there is none. On the whole, it assumes a romantic, picturesque, and pleasing air. The
hills on the opposite side of the river, being high, steep, and laid up in terraces, are of
a singular appearance. Where the hills are quite in waste, they are covered with broom, whins,
box, and some clusters of small pines. The high mountains of Dauphine and Languedoc are now
covered with snow. The almond is in general bloom, and the willow putting out its leaf. There
were formerly olives at Tain; but a great cold, some years ago, killed them, and they have
not been replanted. I am told at Montelimart, that an almond tree yields about three livres
profit a year. Supposing them three toises apart, there will be one hundred to the arpent,
which gives three hundred livres a year, besides the corn growing on the same ground. A league
below Vienne, on the opposite side of the river, is Cote Rotie. It is a string of broken hills,
extending a league on the river, from the village of Ampuis to the town of Condrieu. The soil
is white, tinged a little, sometimes, with yellow, sometimes with red, stony, poor, and laid
up in terraces. Those parts of the hills only, which look to the sun at mid-day, or the earlier
hours of the afternoon, produce wines of the first quality. Seven hundred vines, three feet
apart, yield a feuillette, which is about two and a half pièces, to the arpent. The best red
wine is produced at the upper end, in the neighborhood of Ampuis; the best white, next to Condrieu.
They sell of the first quality and last vintage, at one hundred and fifty livres the pièce,
equal to twelve sous the bottle. Transportation to Paris is sixty livres, and the bottle four
sous; so it may be delivered at Paris in bottles, at twenty sous. When old, it costs ten or
eleven louis the pièce. There is a quality which keeps well, bears transportation, and cannot
be drunk under four years. Another must be drunk at a year old. They are equal in flavor and price.

The wine called Hermitage, is made on the hills impending over the village of Tain; on one
of which is the hermitage which gives name to the hills for about two miles, and to the wine
made on them. There are but three of those hills which produce wine of the first quality, and
of these, the middle regions only. They are about three hundred feet perpendicular height,
three quarters of a mile in length, and have a southern aspect. The soil is scarcely tinged
red, consists of small rotten stone, and is, where the best wine is made, without any perceptible
mixture of earth. It is in sloping terraces. They use a little dung. An homme de vignes, which
consists of seven hundred plants, three feet apart, yields generally about three quarters of
a pièce, which is nearly four pièces to the arpent. When new, the pièce is sold at about two
hundred and twenty-five livres; when old, at three hundred. It cannot be drunk under four years,
and improves fastest in a hot situation. There is so little white made in proportion to the
red, that it is difficult to buy it separate. They make the white sell the red. If bought separately,
it is from fifteen to sixteen louis the pièce, new, and three livres the bottle, old. To give
quality to the red, they mix one eighth of white grapes. Portage to Paris is seventy-two livres
the pièce, weighing six hundred pounds. There are but about one thousand pièces of both red
and white, of the first quality, made annually. Vineyards are never rented here, nor are laborers
in the vineyard hired by the year. They leave buds proportioned to the strength of the vine,
sometimes as much as fifteen inches. The last hermit died in 1751.

In the neighborhood of Montelimart, and below that, they plant vines in rows, six, eight, or
ten feet apart, and two feet asunder in the row, filling the intervals with corn. Sometimes
the vines are in double rows, two feet apart. I saw single asses in ploughs proportioned to
their strength. There are few chateaux in this province. The people, too, are mostly gathered
into villages. There are, however, some scattering farm-houses. These are made either of mud,
or of round stone and mud. They make enclosures also, in both those ways. Day-laborers receive,
sixteen or eighteen sous the day, and feed themselves. Those by the year receive, men three
louis, women half that, and are fed. They rarely eat meat; a single hog, salted, being the
year's stock for a family. But they have plenty of cheese, eggs, potatoes, and other vegetables,
and walnut oil with their salad. It is a trade here, to gather dung along the road for their
vines. This proves they have few cattle. I have seen neither hares nor partridges since I left
Paris, nor wild fowl on any of the rivers. The roads from Lyons to St. Rambert are neither
paved nor gravelled. After that, they are coated with broken flint. The ferry-boats on the
Rhone and the Isere, are moved by the stream, and very rapidly. On each side of the river is
a moveable stage, one end of which is on an axle and two wheels, which, according to the tide,
can be advanced or withdrawn, so as to apply to the gunwale of the boat. The Praetorian Palace
at Vienne, is forty-four feet wide, of the Corinthian order, four columns in front, and four
in flank. It was begun in the year 400, and finished by Charlemagne.

The sepulchral Pyramid, a little way out of the town, has an order for its basement, the pedestal
of which, from point to point of its cap, is twenty-four feet, one inch. At each angle, is
a column, engaged one fourth in the wall. The circumference of the three fourths disengaged,
is four feet four inches; consequently, the diameter is twenty-three inches. The base of the
column indicates it to be Ionic, but the capitals are not formed. The cornice, too, is a bastard
Ionic, without modillions or dentils. Between the columns, on each side, is an arch of eight
feet, four inches, opening with a pilaster on each side of it. On the top of the basement is
a zocle, in the plane of the frieze below. On that is the pyramid, its base in the plane of
the collarins of the pilaster below. The pyramid is a little truncated on its top. This monument
is inedited.

March 18. Principality of Orange. The plains on the Rhone here, are two or three leagues wide,
reddish, good, in corn, clover, almonds, olives. No forests. Here begins the country of olives,
there being very few till we enter this principality. They are the only tree which I see planted
among vines. Thyme grows wild here on the hills. Asses, very small, sell here for two or three
louis. The high hills in Dauphine are covered with snow. The remains of the Roman aqueduct
are of brick: a fine pièce of Mosaic, still on its bed, forming the floor of a cellar. Twenty
feet of it still visible. They are taking down the circular wall of the Amphitheatre to pave
a road.

March 19 to 23. LANGUEDOC. Pont-St.-Esprit. Bagnols. Connaux. Valignitres. Remoulins. St. Gervasy.
Vismes. Pont d'Aries. To Remoulins, there is a mixture of hill and dale. Thence to Nismes,
hills on the right, on the left, plains extending to the Rhone and the sea. The hills are rocky.
Where there is soil, it is reddish and poor. The -plains generally reddish and good, but stony.
When you approach the Rhone, going to Arles, the soil becomes a dark gray loam with some sand,
and very good. The culture is corn, clover, saintfoin, olives, vines, mulberries, willow, and
some almonds. There is no forest. The hills are enclosed in dry stone-wall. Many sheep.

From the summit of the first hill, after leaving Pont-St.-Esprit, there is a beautiful view
of the bridge at about two miles' distance, and a fine landscape of the country both ways.
From thence, an excellent road, judiciously conducted, through very romantic scenes. In one
part, descending the face of a hill, it is laid out in serpentine, and not zigzag, to ease
the descent. In others, it passes through a winding meadow, from fifty to one hundred yards
wide, walled, as it were, on both sides, by hills of rock; and at length issues into plain
country. The waste hills are covered with thyme, box, and chene-vert. Where the body of the
mountains has a surface of soil, the summit has sometimes a crown of rock, as observed in Champagne.
At Nismes, the earth is full of lime-stone. The horses are shorn. They are now pruning the
olive. A very good tree produces sixty pounds of olives, which yield fifteen pounds of oil:
the best quality selling at twelve sous the pound, retail, and ten sous, wholesale. The high
hills of Languedoc still covered with snow. The horse-chestnut and mulberry are leafing; apple
trees and peas blossoming. The first butterfly I have seen. After the vernal equinox, they
are often six or eight months without rain. Many separate farm-houses, numbers of people in
rags, and abundance of beggars. The mine of wheat, weighing thirty pounds, costs four livres
and ten sous. Wheat bread, three sous the pound. Vin ordinaire, good, and of a strong body,
two or three sous the bottle. Oranges, one sous apiece. They are nearly finishing at Nismes
a great mill, worked by a steam-engine, which pumps water from a lower into an upper cistern,
from whence two overshot wheels are supplied, each of which turns two pair of stones. The upper
cistern being once filled with water, it passes through the wheels into the lower one, from
whence it is returned to the upper by the pumps. A stream of water of one quarter or one half
inch diameter, supplies the waste of evaporation, absorption, fee. This is furnished from a
well by a horse. The arches of the Pont-St.-Esprit are of eighty-eight feet. Wild figs, very
flourishing, grow out of the joints of the Pont-du-Gard. The fountain of Nismes is so deep,
that a stone was thirteen seconds descending from the surface to the bottom.

March 24. From Nismes to Arles. The plains extending from Nismes to the Rhone, in the direction
of Aries, are broken in one place by a skirt of low hills. They are red and stony at first,
but as you approach the Rhone, they are of a dark gray mould, with a little sand, and very
good. They are in corn and clover, vines, olives, almonds, mulberries, and willow. There are
some sheep, no wood, no enclosures.

The high hills of Languedoc are covered with snow. At an ancient church, in the suburbs of
Aries, are some hundreds of ancient stone coffins, along the road-side. The ground is thence
called Les Champs Elysees. In a vault in a church, are some curiously wrought, and in a back
yard are many ancient statues, inscriptions, &c. Within the town are a part of two Corinthian
columns, and of the pediment with which they were crowned, very rich, having belonged to the
ancient capitol of the place.

But the principal monument here, is an amphitheatre, the external portico of which is tolerably
complete. How many porticoes there were, cannot be seen; but at one of the principal gates
there are still five, measuring, from out to in, seventy-eight feet, ten inches, the vault
diminishing inwards. There are sixty-four arches, each of which is, from centre to centre,
twenty feet, six inches. Of course, the diameter is of four hundred and thirty-eight feet;
or of four hundred and fifty feet, if we suppose the four principal arches a little larger
than the rest. The ground floor is supported on innumerable vaults. The first story, externally,
has a tall pedestal, like a pilaster, between every two arches; the upper story, a column,
the base of which would indicate it Corinthian. Every column is truncated as low as the impost
of the arch, but the arches are all entire. The whole of the upper entablature is gone, and
of the Attic, if there was one. Not a single seat of the internal is visible. The whole of
the inside, and nearly the whole of the outside, is masked by buildings. It is supposed there
are one thousand inhabitants within the amphitheatre. The walls are more entire and firm than
those of the ampitheatre at Nismes. I suspect its plan and distribution to have been very different
from that.

Terrasson. The plains of the Rhone from Arles to this place, are a league or two wide; the
mould is of a dark gray, good, in corn and lucerne. Neither wood, nor enclosures. Many sheep.

St. Remy. From Terrasson to St. Remy, is a plain of a league or two wide, bordered by broken
hills of massive rock. It is gray and stony, mostly in olives. Some almonds, mulberries, willows,
vines, corn, and lucerne. Many sheep. No forest, nor enclosures.

A laboring man's wages here, are one hundred and fifty livres, a woman's half, and fed. Two
hundred and eighty pounds of wheat sell for forty-two livres. They make no butter here. It
costs, when brought, fifteen sous the pound. Oil is ten sous the pound. Tolerably good olive
trees yield, one with another, about twenty pounds of oil. An olive tree must be twenty years
old before it has paid its own expenses. It lasts for ever. In 1765, it was so cold, that the
Rhone was frozen over at Aries for two months. In 1767, there was a cold spell of a week, which
killed all the olive trees. From being fine weather, in one hour there was ice hard enough
to bear a horse. It killed people on the road. The old roots of the olive trees put out again.
Olive grounds sell for twenty-four livres a tree, and lease at twenty-four sous the tree. The
trees are fifteen pieds apart. But lucerne is a more profitable culture. An arpent yields one
hundred quintals of hay a year, worth three livres the quintal. It is cut four or five times
a year. It is sowed in the broadcast, and lasts five or six years. An arpent of ground for
corn rents at from thirty to thirty-six livres. Their leases are for six or nine years. They
plant willow for fire-wood, and for hoops to their casks. It seldom rains here in summer. There
are some chateaux, many separate farm-houses, good, and ornamented in the small way, so as
to show that the tenant's whole time is not occupied in procuring physical necessaries.

March 25. Orgon. Pontroyal. St. Cannat. From Orgon to Pontroyal, after quitting the plains
of the Rhone, the country seems still to be a plain, cut into compartments by chains of mountains
of massive rock, running through it in various directions. From Pontroyal to St. Cannat, the
land lies rather in basins. The soil is very various, gray and clay, gray and stony, red and
stony; sometimes good, sometimes middling, often barren. We find some golden willows. Towards
Pontroyal, the hills begin to be in vines and afterwards in some pasture of greensward and
clover. About Orgon are some enclosures of quick-set, others of conical yews planted close.
Towards St. Cannat, they begin to be of stone.

The high mountains are covered with snow. Some separate farm-houses of mud. Near Pontroyal
is a canal for watering the country; one branch goes to Terrasson, the other to Arles.

March 25, 26, 27, 28. Aix. The country is waving, in vines, pasture of greensward and clover,
much enclosed with stone, and abounding with sheep.

On approaching Aix, the valley which opens from thence towards the mouth of the Rhone and the
sea, is rich and beautiful; a perfect grove of olive trees, mixed among which are corn, lucerne,
and vines. The waste grounds throw out thyme and lavender. Wheat bread is three sous the pound.
Cow's milk sixteen sous the quart, sheep's milk six sous, butter of sheep's milk twenty sous
the pound. Oil, of the best quality, is twelve sous the pound, and sixteen sous if it be virgin
oil. This is what runs from the olive when put into the press, spontaneously; afterwards they
are forced by the press and by hot water. Dung costs ten sous the one hundred pounds. Their
fire-wood is chene-vert and willow. The latter is lopped every three years. An ass sells for
from one to three louis; the best mules for thirty louis. The best asses will carry two hundred
pounds; the best horses three hundred pounds; the best mules six hundred pounds. The temperature
of the mineral waters of Aix is 90° of Fahrenheit's thermometer, at the spout. A mule eats
half as much as a horse. The allowance to an ass for the day, is a handful of bran mixed with
straw. The price of mutton and beef, about six and a half sous the pound. The beef comes from
Auvergne, and is poor and bad. The mutton is small, but of excellent flavor. The wages of a
laboring man are one hundred and fifty livres the year, a woman's sixty to sixty-six livres,
and fed. Their bread is half wheat, half rye, made once in three or four weeks, to prevent
too great a consumption. In the morning they eat bread with an anchovy, or an onion. Their
dinner in the middle of the day is bread, soup, and vegetables. Their supper the same. With
their vegetables, they have always oil and vinegar. The oil costs about eight sous the pound.
They drink what is called piquette. This is made after the grapes are pressed, by pouring hot
water on the pumice. On Sunday they have meat and wine. Their wood for building comes mostly
from the Alps, down the Durance and Rhone. A stick of pine, fifty feet long, girting six feet
and three inches at one end, and three feet three inches at the other, costs, delivered here,
from fifty-four to sixty livres. Sixty pounds of wheat cost seven livres. One of their little
asses will travel with his burthen about five or six leagues a day, and day by day; a mule
from six to eight leagues.*

     * It is twenty American miles from Aix to Marseilles, and
     they call it five leagues. Their league, then, is of four
     American miles.

March 29. Marseilles. The country is hilly, intersected by chains of hills and mountains of
massive rock. The soil is reddish, stony, and indifferent where best. Wherever there is any
soil, it is covered with olives. Among these are corn, vines, some lucerne, mulberry, some
almonds, and willow. Neither enclosures, nor forest. A very few sheep.

On the road I saw one of those little whirlwinds which we have in Virginia, also some gullied
hill-sides. The people are in separate establishments. Ten morning observations of the thermometer,
from the 20th to the 31st of March inclusive, made at Nismes, St. Remy, Aix, and Marseilles,
give me an average of 52 1/2°, and 46° and 61°, for the greatest and least morning heats. Nine
afternoon observations, yield an average of 62 2/3°, and 57° and 66°, the greatest and least.
The longest day here, from sunrise to sunset, is fifteen hours and fourteen minutes; the shortest
is eight hours and forty-six minutes; the latitude being ---------.

There are no tides in the Mediterranean. It is observed to me, that the olive tree grows nowhere
more than thirty leagues distant from that sea. I suppose, however, that both Spain and Portugal
furnish proofs to the contrary, and doubt its truth as to Asia, Africa, and America. They are
six or eight months at a time, here, without rain. The most delicate figs known in Europe,
are those growing about this place, called figues Marseilloises, or les veritables Marseilloises,
to distinguish them from others of inferior quality growing here. These keep any length of
time. All others exude a sugar in the spring of the year, and become sour. The only process
for preserving them, is drying them in the sun, without putting any thing to them whatever.
They sell at fifteen sous the pound, while there are others as cheap as five sous the pound.
I meet here a small dried grape from Smyrna, without a seed. There are few of the plants growing
in this neighborhood. The best grape for drying, known here, is called des Panses. They are
very large, with a thick skin and much juice. They are best against a wall of southern aspect,
as their abundance of juice requires a great deal of sun to dry it. Pretty good fig trees are
about the size of the apricot tree, and yield about twenty pounds of figs when dry, each. But
the largest will yield the value of a louis. They are sometimes fifteen inches in diameter.
It is said that the Marseilles fig degenerates when transported into any other part of the
country. The leaves of the mulberry tree will sell for about three livres, the purchaser gathering
them. The caper is a creeping plant. It is killed to the roots every winter. In the spring
it puts out branches, which creep to the distance of three feet from the centre. The fruit
forms on the stem, as that extends itself, and must be gathered every day, as it forms. This
is the work of women. The pistache grows in this neighborhood also, but not very good. They
eat them in their milky state. Monsieur de Bergasse has a wine-cellar two hundred and forty
pieds long, in which are one hundred and twenty tons, of from fifty to one hundred pièces each.
These tons are twelve pieds diameter, the staves four inches thick, the heading two and a half
pouces thick. The temperature of his cellar is of 9 1/2° of Reaumur. The best method of packing
wine, when bottled, is to lay the bottles on their side, and cover them with sand. The 2d of
April, the young figs are formed; the 4th we have Windsor beans. They have had asparagus ever
since the middle of March. The 5th, I see strawberries and the Guelder rose in blossom. To
preserve the raisin, it is first dipped into ley, and then dried in the sun. The aloe grows
in the open ground. I measure a mule, not the largest, five feet and two inches high. Marseilles
is in an amphitheatre, at the mouth of the Veaune, surrounded by high mountains of naked rock,
distant two or three leagues. The country within that amphitheatre is a mixture of small hills,
vallies, and plains. The latter are naturally rich. The hills and vallies are forced into production.
Looking from the Chateau de Notre Dame de la Garde, it would seem as if there was a bastide
for every arpent. The plain-lands sell for one hundred louis the carterelle, which is less
than an acre. The ground of the arsenal in Marseilles sold for from fifteen to forty louis
the square verge, being nearly the square yard English. In the fields open to the sea, they
are obliged to plant rows of canes, every here and there, to break the force of the wind. Saw
at the Chateau Borelli pumps worked by the wind.

April 6. From Marseilles to Aubagne. A valley on the Veaune, bordered on each side by high
mountains of massive rock, on which are only some small pines. The interjacent valley is of
small hills, vallies, and plains, reddish, gravelly, and originally poor, but fertilized by
art, and covered with corn, vines, olives, figs, almonds, mulberries, lucerne, and clover.
The river is twelve or fifteen feet wide, one or two feet deep, and rapid.

From Aubagne to Cuges, Beausset, Toulon. The road, quitting the Veaune and its wealthy valley,
a little after Aubagne, enters those mountains of rock, and is engaged with them about a dozen
miles. Then it passes six or eight miles through a country still very hilly and stony, but
laid up in terraces, covered with olives, vines, and corn. It then follows for two or three
miles a hollow between two of those high mountains, which has been, found or made by a small
stream. The mountains then reclining a little from their perpendicular, and presenting a coat
of soil, reddish, and tolerably good, have given place to the little village of Olioules, in
the gardens of which are oranges in the open ground. It continues hilly till we enter the plain
of Toulon. On different parts of this road there are figs in the open fields. At Cuges is a
plain of about three fourths of a mile diameter, surrounded by high mountains of rock. In this
the caper is principally cultivated. The soil is mulatto, gravelly, and of middling quality,
or rather indifferent. The plants are set in quincunx, about eight feet apart. They have been
covered during winter by a hill of earth a foot high. They are now enclosing, pruning, and
ploughing them.

Toulon. From Olioules to Toulon the figs are in the open fields. Some of them have stems of
fifteen inches diameter. They generally fork near the ground, but sometimes have a single stem
of five feet long. They are as large as apricot trees. The olive trees of this day's journey
are about the size of large apple trees. The people are in separate establishments. Toulon
is in a valley at the mouth of the Goutier, a little river of the size of the Veaune; surrounded
by high mountains of naked rock, leaving some space between them and the sea. This space is
hilly, reddish, gravelly, and of middling quality, in olives, vines, corn, almonds, figs, and
capers. The capers are planted eight feet apart. A bush yields, one year with another, two
pounds, worth twelve sous the pound. Every plant, then, yields twenty-four sous, equal to one
shilling sterling. An acre, containing six hundred and seventy-six plants, would yield thirty-three
pounds sixteen shillings sterling. The fruit is gathered by women, who can gather about twelve
pounds a day. They begin to gather about the last of June, and end about the middle of October.
Each plant must be picked every day. These plants grow equally well in the best or worst soil,
or even in the walls, where there is no soil. They will last the life of a man, or longer.
The heat is so great at Toulon in summer, as to occasion very great cracks in the earth. Where
the caper is in a soil that will admit it, they plough it. They have pease here through the
winter, sheltering them occasionally; and they have had them ever since the 25th of March,
without shelter.

April 6. Hieres. This is a plain of two or three miles diameter, bounded by the sea on one
side, and mountains of rock on the other. The soil is reddish, gravelly, tolerably good, and
well watered. It is in olives, mulberries, vines, figs, corn, and some flax. There are also
some cherry trees. From Hieres to the sea, which is two or three miles, is a grove of orange
trees, olives, and mulberries. The largest orange tree is of two feet diameter one way, and
one foot the other (for the section of all the larger ones would be an oval, not a round),
and about twenty feet high. Such a tree will yield about six thousand oranges a year. The garden
of M. Fille has fifteen thousand six hundred orange, trees. Some years they yield forty thousand
livres, some only ten thousand; but generally about twenty-five thousand. The trees are from
eight to ten feet apart. They are blossoming and bearing, all the year, flowers and fruit in
every stage at the same time. But the best fruit is that which is gathered in April and May.
Hieres is a village of about five thousand inhabitants, at the foot of a mountain, which covers
it from the north, and from which extends a plain of two or three miles to the sea-shore. It
has no port. Here are palm trees twenty or thirty feet high, but they bear no fruit. There
is also a botanical garden kept by the King. Considerable salt-ponds here. Hieres is six miles
from the public road. It is built on a narrow spur of the mountain. The streets in every direction
are steep, in steps of stairs, and about eight feet wide. No carriage of any kind can enter
it. The wealthier inhabitants use chaises à porteurs. But there are few wealthy, the bulk of
the inhabitants being laborers of the earth. At a league's distance in the sea is an island,
on which is the Chateau de Géans, belonging to the Marquis de Pontoives: there is a causeway
leading to it. The cold of the last November killed the leaves of a great number of the orange-trees,
and some of the trees themselves.

From Hieres to Cuers, Pignans, Luc, is mostly a plain, with mountains on each hand at a mile
or two distance. The soil is generally reddish, and the latter part very red and good. The
growth is olives, figs, vines, mulberries, corn, clover, and lucerne. The olive trees are from
three to four feet in diameter. There are hedges of pomegranates, sweet-briar, and broom. A
great deal of thyme growing wild. There are some enclosures of stone; some sheep and goats.

April 9. From Luc to Vidavban, Muy, Frejus, the road leads through vallies, and crosses occasionally
the mountains which separate them. The vallies are tolerably good, always red and stony, gravelly
or gritty. Their produce as before. The mountains are barren.

Lesterelle, Napoule. Eighteen miles of ascent and descent of a very high mountain. Its growth,
where capable of any, two-leaved pine, very small, and some chêne vert.

Antibes, Nice. From Napoule the road is generally near the sea, passing over little hills or
strings of vallies, the soil stony, and much below mediocrity in its quality. Here and there
is a good plain.

There is snow on the high mountains. The first frogs I have heard are of this day (the 9th).
At Antibes are oranges in the open ground, but in small enclosures; palm trees also. From thence
to the Var are the largest fig trees and olive trees I have seen. The fig trees are eighteen
inches in diameter, and six feet stem; the olives sometimes six feet in diameter, and as large
heads as the largest low-ground apple trees. This tree was but a shrub where I first fell in
with it, and has become larger and larger to this place. The people are mostly in villages.
The several provinces, and even cantons, are distinguished by the form of the women's hats,
so that one may know of what canton a woman is by her hat.

Nice. The pine-bur is used here for kindling fires. The people are in separate establishments.
With respect to the orange, there seems to be no climate on this side of the Alps sufficiently
mild in itself to preserve it without shelter. At Olioules they are between two high mountains;
at Hieres covered on the north by a very high mountain; at Antibes and Nice covered by mountains,
and also within small, high enclosures. Quære. To trace the true line from east to west, which
forms the northern and natural limit of that fruit? Saw an elder tree (sambucus) near Nice,
fifteen inches in diameter, and eight feet stem. The wine made in this neighborhood is good,
though not of the first quality. There are one thousand mules, loaded with merchandise, which
pass every week between Nice and Turin, counting those coming as well as going.

April 13. Scarena. Sospello. There are no orange trees after we leave the environs of Nice.
We lose the olive after rising a little above the village of Scarena, on Mount Braus, and find
it again on the other side, a little before we get down to Sospello. But wherever there is
soil enough it is terraced, and in corn. The waste parts are either in two-leaved pine and
thyme, or of absolutely naked rock. Sospello is on a little torrent, called Bevera, which runs
into the river Roia, at the mouth of which is Ventimiglia. The olive trees on the mountain
are now loaded with fruit; while some at Sospello are in blossom. Fire-wood here and at Scarena
costs fifteen sous the quintal.

April 14. Ciandola. Tende. In crossing Mount Brois we lose the olive tree after getting to
a certain height, and find it again on the other side at the village of Breglio. Here we come
to the river Roia, which, after receiving the branch on which is Sospello, leads to the sea
at Ventimiglia. The Roia is about twelve yards wide, and abounds with speckled trout. Were
a road made from Breglio, along the side of the Roia to Ventimiglia, it might turn the commerce
of Turin to this last place instead of Nice; because it would avoid the mountains of Braus
and Brois, leaving only that of Tende; that is to say, it would avoid more than half the difficulties
of the passage. Further on, we come to the Chateau di Saorgio, where a scene is presented the
most singular and picturesque I ever saw. The castle and village seem hanging to a cloud in
front. On the right is a mountain cloven through, to let pass a gurgling stream; on the left,
a river, over which is thrown a magnificent bridge. The whole forms a basin, the sides of which
are shagged with rocks, olive trees, vines, herds, &c. Near here I saw a tub-wheel without
a ream; the trunk descended from the top of the water-fall to the wheel in a direct line, but
with the usual inclination. The produce along this passage is most generally olives, except
on the heights as before observed; also corn, vines, mulberries, figs, cherries, and walnuts.
They have cows, goats, and sheep. In passing on towards Tende, olives fail us ultimately at
the village of Fontan, and there the chestnut trees begin in good quantity. Ciandola consists
of only two houses, both taverns. Tende is a very inconsiderable village, in which they have
not yet the luxury of glass windows: nor in any of the villages on this passage have they yet
the fashion of powdering the hair. Common stone and limestone are so abundant, that the apartments
of every story are vaulted with stone to save wood.

April 15. Limone. Coni. I see abundance of lime-stone as far as the earth is uncovered with
snow; i.e. within half or three quarters of an hour's walk of the top. The snows descend much
lower on the eastern than western side. Wherever there is soil, there is corn quite to the
commencement of the snows, and I suppose under them also. The waste parts are in two-leaved
pine, lavender, and thyme. From the foot of the mountain to Coni the road follows a branch
of the Po, the plains of which begin narrow, and widen at length into a general plain country,
bounded on one side by the Alps. They are good, dark-colored, sometimes tinged with red, and
in pasture, corn, mulberries, and some almonds. The hill-sides bordering these plains are reddish,
and where they admit of it are in corn; but this is seldom. They are mostly in chestnut, and
often absolutely barren. The whole of the plains are plentifully watered from the river, as
is much of the hill-side. A great deal of golden willow all along the rivers on the whole of
this passage through the Alps. The southern parts of France, but still more the passage through
the Alps, enable one to form a scale of the tenderer plants, arranging them according to their
several powers of resisting cold. Ascending three different mountains, Braus, Brois, and Tende,
they disappear one after another: and descending on the other side, they show themselves again
one after another. This is their order, from the tenderest to the hardiest. Caper, orange,
palm, aloe, olive, pomegranate, walnut, fig, almond. But this must be understood of the plant;
for as to the fruit, the order is somewhat different. The caper, for example, is the tenderest
plant, yet being so easily protected, it is the most certain in its fruit. The almond, the
hardiest plant, loses its fruit the oftenest on account of its forwardness. The palm, hardier
than the caper and the orange, never produces perfect fruit in these parts. Coni is a considerable
town, and pretty well built. It is walled.

April 16. Centale. Savigliano. Racconigi. Poirino. Turin. The Alps, as far as they are in view
from north to south, show the gradation of climate by the line which terminates the snows lying
on them. This line begins at their foot northwardly, and rises as they pass on to the south,
so as to be half way up their sides on the most southern undulations of the mountain now in
view. From the mountains to Turin we see no tree tenderer than the walnut. Of these, as well
as of almonds and mulberries, there are a few: somewhat more of vines, but most generally willows
and poplars. Corn is sowed with all these. They mix with them also clover and small grass.
The country is a general plain; the soil dark, and sometimes, though rarely, reddish. It is
rich, and much infested with wild onions. At Racconigi I see the tops and shocks of maize,
which prove it is cultivated here: but it can be in small quantities only, because I observe
very little ground but what has already something else in it. Here and there are small patches
prepared, I suppose, for maize. They have a method of planting the vine, which I have not seen
before. At intervals of about eight feet they plant from two to six plants of vine in a cluster
At each cluster they fix a forked staff, the plane of the prongs of the fork at a right angle
with the row of vines. Athwart these prongs they lash another staff, like a handspike, about
eight feet long, horizontally, seven or eight feet from the ground. Of course, it crosses the
rows at right angles. The vines are brought from the foot of the fork up to this cross-piece,
turned over it, and conducted along over the next, the next, and so on, as far as they will
extend, the whole forming an arbor eight feet wide and high and of the whole length of the
row, little interrupted by the stems of the vines, which being close around the fork, pass
up through hoops, so as to occupy a space only of small diameter. All the buildings in this
country are of brick, sometimes covered with plaister, sometimes not. There is a very large
and handsome bridge, of seven arches, over the torrent of Sangone. We cross the Po in swinging
batteaux. Two are placed side by side, and kept together by a plank-floor, common to both,
and lying on the gunwales. The carriage drives on this, without taking out any of the horses.
About one hundred and fifty yards up the river is a fixed stake, and a rope tied to it, the
other end of which is made fast to one side of the batteaux, so as to throw them oblique to
the current. The stream then acting on them, as on an inclined plane, forces them across the
current in the portion of a circle, of which the rope is the radius. To support the rope in
its whole length, there are two intermediate canoes, about fifty yards apart, in the heads
of which are short masts. To the top of these the rope is lashed, the canoes being free otherwise
to concur with the general vibration in their smaller arcs of circles. The Po is there about
fifty yards wide, and about one hundred in the neighborhood of Turin.

April 17, 18. Turin. The first nightingale I have heard this year is to-day (18th). There is
a red wine of Nebiule made in this neighborhood, which is very singular. It is about as sweet
as the silky Madeira, as astringent on the palate as Bordeaux, and as brisk as Champagne. It
is a pleasing wine. At Moncaglieri, about six miles from Turin, on the right side of the Po,
begins a ridge of mountains, which, following the Po by Turin, after some distance, spreads
wide, and forms the duchy of Montferrat. The soil is mostly red, and in vines, affording a
wine called Montferrat, which is thick and strong.

April 19. Settimo. Chivasso. Ciliano. S. Germano. Vercelli. The country continues plain and
rich, the soil black. The culture, corn, pasture, maize, vines, mulberries, walnuts, some willow,
and poplar. The maize bears a very small proportion to the small grain. The earth is formed
into ridges from three to four feet wide, and the maize sowed in the broad-cast, on the higher
parts of the ridge, so as to cover a third or half of the whole surface. It is sowed late in
May. This country is plentifully and beautifully watered at present. Much of it is by torrents,
which are dry in summer. These torrents make a great deal of waste ground, covering it with
sand and stones. These wastes are sometimes planted in trees, sometimes quite unemployed. They
make hedges of willows, by setting the plants from one to three feet apart. When they are grown
to the height of eight or ten feet, they bend them down, and interlace them one with another.
I do not see any of these, however, which are become old. Probably, therefore, they soon die.
The women here smite on the anvil, and work with the maul and spade. The people of this country
are ill dressed in comparison with those of France, and there are more spots of uncultivated
ground. The plough here is made with a single handle, which is a beam twelve feet long, six
inches in diameter below, and tapered to about two inches at the upper end. They use goads
for the oxen, not whips. The first swallows I have seen are to-day. There is a wine called
Gatina, made in the neighborhood of Vercelli, both red and white. The latter resembles Calcavallo.
There is also a red wine of Salusola, which is esteemed. It is very light. In the neighborhood
of Vercelli begin the rice-fields. The water with which they are watered is very dear. They
do not permit rice to be sown within two miles of the cities, on account of the insalubrity.
Notwithstanding this, when the water is drawn off the fields, in August, the whole country
is subject to agues and fevers. They estimate, that the same measure of ground yields three
times as much rice as wheat, and with half the labor. They are now sowing. As soon as sowed,
they let on the water two or three inches deep. After six weeks, or two months, they draw it
off to weed; then let it on again, and it remains till August, when it is drawn off, about
three or four weeks before the grain is ripe. In September they cut it. It is first threshed;
then beaten in the mortar to separate the husk; then, by different siftings, it is separated
into three qualities. Twelve rupes, equal to three hundred pounds of twelve ounces each, sell
for sixteen livres, money of Piedmont, where the livre is exactly the shilling of England.
Twelve rupes of maize sell for nine livres. The machine for separating the husk is thus made.
In the axis of a water-wheel are a number of arms inserted, which, as they revolve, catches
each the cog of a pestle, lifts it to a certain height, and lets it fall again. These pestles
are five and a quarter inches square, ten feet long, and at their lower end formed into a truncated
cone of three inches diameter, where cut off. The conical part is covered with iron. The pestles
are ten and a half inches apart in the clear. They pass through two horizontal beams, which
string them, as it were, together, and while the mortises in the beams are so loose, as to
let the pestles work vertically, it restrains them to that motion. There is a mortar of wood,
twelve or fifteen inches deep, under each pestle, covered with a board, the hole of which is
only large enough to let the pestle pass freely. There are two arms in the axis for every pestle,
so that the pestle gives two strokes for every revolution of the wheel. Poggio, a muleteer,
who passes every week between Vercelli and Genoa, will smuggle a sack of rough rice for me
to, Genoa; it being death to export it in that form. They have good cattle, and in good number,
mostly cream-colored; and some middle-sized sheep. The streams furnish speckled trout.

April 20. Novara. Buffalora. Sedriano. Milan. From Vercelli to Novara the fields are all in
rice, and now mostly under water. The dams separating the several water-plats or ponds, are
set in willow. At Novara there are some figs in the gardens in situations well protected. From
Novara to the Ticino it is mostly stony and waste, grown up in broom. From Ticino to Milan
it is all in corn. Among the corn are willows, principally, a good many mulberries, some walnuts,
and here and there an almond. The country still a plain, the soil black and rich, except between
Novara and the Ticino, as before mentioned. There is very fine pasture round Vercelli and Novara
to the distance of two miles, within which rice is not permitted. We cross the Sisto on the
same kind of vibrating or pendulum boat as on the Po. The river is eighty or ninety yards wide;
the rope fastened to an island two hundred yards above, and supported by five intermediate
canoes. It is about one and a half inches in diameter. On these rivers they use a short oar
of twelve feet long, the flat end of which is hooped with iron, shooting out a prong at each
corner, so that it may be used occasionally as a setting-pole. There is snow on the Apennines,
near Genoa. They have still another method here of planting the vine. Along rows of trees,
they lash poles from tree to tree. Between the trees, are set vines, which, passing over the
pole, are carried on to the pole of the, next tree, whose vines are in like manner brought
to this, and twined together; thus forming the intervals between the rows of trees, alternately,
into arbors and open space. They have another method also of making quick-set hedges. Willows
are planted from one to two feet apart, and interlaced, so that every one is crossed by three
or four others.

April 21, 22. Milan. Figs and pomegranates grow here, unsheltered, as I am told. I saw none,
and therefore suppose them rare. They had formerly olives; but a great cold, in 1709, killed
them, and they have not been replanted. Among a great many houses painted al fresco, the Casa
Roma and Casa Candiani, by Appiani, and Casa Belgioiosa, by Martin, are superior. In the second,
is a small cabinet, the ceiling of which is in small hexagons, within which are cameos and
heads painted alternately, no two the same. The salon of the Casa-Belgioiosa is superior to
any thing 1 have ever seen. The mixture called scagliuola, of which they make their walls and
floors, is so like the finest marble, as to be scarcely distinguishable from it. The nights
of the 20th and 21st instant, the rice ponds froze half an inch thick. Droughts of two or three
months are not uncommon here, in summer. About five years ago, there was such a hail as to
kill cats. The Count del Verme tells me of a pendulum odometer for the wheel of a carriage.
Leases here are mostly for nine years. Wheat costs a louis d'or the one hundred and forty pounds.
A laboring man receives sixty livres, and is fed and lodged. The trade of this country is principally
rice, raw silk, and cheese.

April 23. Casino, five miles from Milan. I examined another rice-beater of six pestles. They
are eight feet nine inches long. Their ends, instead of being a truncated cone, have nine teeth
of iron, bound closely together. Each tooth is a double pyramid, joined at the base. When put
together, they stand with the upper ends placed in contact, so as to form them into one great
cone, and the lower ends diverging. The upper are socketed into the end of the pestle, and
the lower, when a little blunted by use, are not unlike the jaw-teeth of the mammoth, with
their studs. They say here, that pestles armed with these teeth, clean the rice faster, and
break it less. The mortar, too, is of stone, which is supposed as good as wood, and more durable.
One half of these pestles are always up. They rise about twenty-one inches; and each makes
thirty-eight strokes in a minute; one hundred pounds of rough rice is put into the six mortars,
and beaten somewhat less than a quarter of an hour. It is then taken out, put into a sifter
of four feet diameter, suspended horizontally; sifted there; shifted into another of the same
size; sifted there; returned to the mortars; beaten a little more than a quarter of an hour;
sifted again; and it is finished. The six pestles will clear four thousand pounds in twenty-four
hours. The pound here is twenty-eight ounces: the ounce equal to that of Paris. The best rice
requires half an hour's boiling; a more indifferent kind, somewhat less. To sow the rice, they
first plough the ground, then level it with a drag-harrow, and let on the water; when the earth
has become soft, they smooth it with a shovel under the water, and then sow the rice in the water.

Rozzano. Parmesan cheese. It is supposed this was formerly made at Parma, and took its name
thence; but none is made there now. It is made through all the country extending from Milan,
for one hundred and fifty miles. The most is made about Lodi. The making of butter being connected
with that of making cheese, both must be described together. There are, in the stables I saw,
eighty-five cows, fed on hay and grass, not on grain. They are milked twice in twenty-four
hours, ten cows yielding at the two milkings a brenta of milk, which is twenty-four of our
gallons. The night's milk is scummed in the morning at daybreak, when the cows are milked again,
and the new milk mixed with the old. In three hours, the whole mass is scummed a second time,
the milk remaining in a kettle for cheese, and the cream being put into a cylindrical churn,
shaped like a grind-stone, eighteen inches radius, and fourteen inches thick. In this churn,
there are three staves pointing inwardly, endwise, to break the current of the milk. Through
its centre passes an iron axis, with a handle at each end. It is turned, about an hour and
an half, by two men, till the butter is produced. Then they pour off the butter-milk, and put
in some water which they agitate backwards and forwards about a minute, and pour it off. They
take out the butter, press it with their hands into loaves, and stamp it. It has no other washing.
Sixteen American gallons of milk yield fifteen pounds of butter, which sell at twenty-four
sous the pound.

The milk, which, after being scummed as before, had been put into a copper kettle, receives
its due quantity of rennet, and is gently warmed, if the season requires it. In about four
hours, it becomes a slip. Then the whey begins to separate. A little, of it is taken out. The
curd is then thoroughly broken by a machine like a chocolate-mill. A quarter of an ounce of
saffron is put to seven brentas of milk, to give color to the cheese. The kettle is then moved
over the hearth, and heated by a quick fire till the curd is hard enough, being broken into
small lumps by continued stirring. It is moved off the fire, most of the whey taken out, the
curd compressed into a globe by the hand, a linen cloth slipped under it, and it is drawn out
in that. A loose hoop is then laid on a bench, and the curd, as wrapped in the linen, is put
into the hoop: it is a little pressed by the hand, the hoop drawn tight, and made fast. A board,
two inches thick, is laid on it, and a stone on that, of about twenty pounds weight. In an
hour, the whey is run off, and the cheese finished. They sprinkle a little salt on it every
other day in summer, and every day in winter, for six weeks. Seven brentas of milk make a cheese
of fifty pounds, which requires six months to ripen, and is then dried to forty-five pounds.
It sells on the spot for eighty-eight livres, the one hundred pounds. There are now one hundred
and fifty cheeses in this dairy. They are nineteen inches diameter, and six inches thick. They
make a cheese a day, in summer, and two in three days, or one in two days, in winter.

The whey is put back into the kettle, the butter-milk poured into it, and of this, they make
a poor cheese for the country people. The whey of this is given to the hogs. Eight men suffice
to keep the cows, and to do all the business of this dairy. Mascarponi, a kind of curd, is
made by pouring some butter-milk into cream, which is thereby curdled, and is then pressed
in a linen cloth.

The ice-houses at Rozzano are dug about fifteen feet deep, and twenty feet diameter, and poles
are driven down all round. A conical thatched roof is then put over them, fifteen feet high,
and pieces of wood are laid at bottom, to keep the ice out of the water which drips from it,
and goes off by a sink. Straw is laid on this wood, and then the house filled with ice, always
putting straw between the ice and the walls, and covering ultimately with straw. About a third
is lost by melting. Snow gives the most delicate flavor to creams; but ice is the most powerful
congealer, and lasts longest. A tuft of trees surrounds these ice-houses.

Round Milan, to the distance of five miles, are corn, pasture, gardens, mulberries, willows,
and vines. For, in this state, rice ponds are not permitted within five miles of the cities.

Binasco. Pavia. Near Casino the rice-ponds begin, and continue to within five miles of Pavia,
the whole ground being in rice, pasture, and willows. The pasture is in the rice grounds which
are resting. In the neighborhood of Pavia, again, are corn, pasture, &c. as round Milan. They
gave me green pease at Pavia.

April 24. Voghera. Tortona. Novi. From Pavia to Novi corn, pasture, vines, mulberries, willows;
but no rice. The country continues plain, except that the Apennines are approaching on the
left. The soil, always good, is dark till we approach Novi, and then red. We cross the Po where
it is three hundred yards wide, in a pendulum boat. The rope is fastened on one side of the
river, three hundred yards above, and supported by eight intermediate canoes, with little masts
in them to give a greater elevation to the rope. We pass in eleven minutes. Women, girls, and
boys are working with the hoe, and breaking the clods with mauls.

April 25. Voltaggio. Campo-Marone. Genoa. At Novi, the Apennines begin to rise. Their growth
of timber is oak, tall, small, and knotty, and chestnut. We soon lose the walnut, ascending,
and find it again, about one fourth of the way down, on the south side. About halfway down,
we find figs and vines, which continue fine and in great abundance. The Apennines are mostly
covered with soil, and are in corn, pasture, mulberries and figs, in the parts before indicated.
About half way from their foot to Genoa, at Campo-Marone, we find again the olive tree. Hence
the produce becomes mixed, of all the kinds before mentioned. The method of sowing the Indian
corn at Campo-Marone, is as follows. With a hoe shaped like the blade of a trowel, two feet
long, and six inches broad at its upper end, pointed below, and a little curved, they make
a trench. In that, they drop the grains six inches apart. Then two feet from that, they make
another trench, throwing the earth they take out of that on the grain of the last one, with
a singular slight and quickness; and so through the whole piece. The last trench is filled
with the earth adjoining.

April 26. Genoa. Strawberries at Genoa. Scaffold poles for the upper parts of a wall, as for
the third story, rest on the window sills of the story below. Slate is used here for paving,
for steps, for stairs (the rise as well as tread), and for fixed Venetian blinds. At the Palazzo
Marcello Durazzo, benches with straight legs, and bottoms of cane. At the Palazzo del Prencipe
Lomellino, at Sestri, a phaeton with a canopy. At the former, tables folding into one plane.
At Nervi they have pease, strawberries, &c. all the year round. The gardens of the Count Durazzo
at Nervi, exhibit as rich a mixture of the utile dulci, as I ever saw. All the environs in
Genoa are in olives, figs, oranges, mulberries, corn, and garden-stuff. Aloes in many places,
but they never flower.

April 28. Noli. The Apennine and Alps appear to me to be one and the same continued ridge of
mountains, separating every where the waters of the Adriatic Gulf from those of the Mediterranean.
Where it forms an elbow, touching the Mediterranean, as a smaller circle touches a larger,
within which it is inscribed, in the manner of a tangent, the name changes from Alps to Apennine.
It is the beginning of the Apennine which constitutes the state of Genoa, the mountains there
generally falling down in barren, naked precipices into the sea. Wherever there is soil on
the lower parts, it is principally in olives and figs, in vines also, mulberries, and corn.
Where there are hollows well protected, there are oranges. This is the case at Golfo della
Spezia, Sestri, Bugiasco, Nervi, Genoa, Pegli, Savona, Finale, Oneglia (where there are abundance),
St. Rerno, Ventimiglia, Mentone, and Monaco. Noli, into which I was obliged to put, by a change
of wind, is forty miles from Genoa. There are twelve hundred inhabitants in the village, and
many separate houses round about. One of the precipices hanging over the sea, is covered with
aloes. But neither here, nor any where else I have been, could I procure satisfactory information
that they ever flower. The current of testimony is to the contrary. Noli furnishes many fishermen.
Paths penetrate up into the mountains in several directions, about three fourths of a mile;
but these are practicable only for asses and mules. I saw no cattle nor sheep in the settlement.
The wine they make, is white and indifferent. A curious cruet for oil and vinegar in one piece,
I saw here. A bishop resides here, whose revenue is two thousand livres, equal to sixty-six
guineas. I heard a nightingale here.

April 29. Albenga. In walking along the shore from Louano to this place, I saw no appearance
of shells. The tops of the mountains are covered with snow, while there are olive trees, &c.
on the lower parts. I do not remember to have seen assigned any where, the cause of the apparent
color of the sea. Its water is generally clear and colorless, if taken up and viewed in a glass.
That of the Mediterranean is remarkably so. Yet in the mass, it assumes, by reflection, the
color of the sky or atmosphere, black, green, blue, according to the state of the weather.
If any person wished to retire from his acquaintance, to live absolutely unknown, and yet in
the midst of physical enjoyments, it should be in some of the little villages of this coast,
where air, water, and earth concur to offer what each has, most precious. Here are nightingales,
beccaficas, ortolans, pheasants, partridges, quails, a superb climate, and the power of changing
it from summer to winter at any moment, by ascending the mountains. The earth furnishes wine,
oil, figs, oranges, and every production of the garden, in every season. The sea yields lobsters,
crabs, oysters, tunny, sardines, anchovies, &c. Ortolans sell, at this time, at thirty sous,
equal to one shilling sterling, the dozen. At this season, they must be fattened. Through the
whole of my route from Marseilles, I observe they plant a great deal of cane or reed, which
is convenient while growing, as a cover from the cold and boisterous winds, and when cut, it
serves for espaliers to vines, pease, &c. Through Piedmont, Lombardy, the Milanese, and Genoese,
the garden bean is a great article of culture; almost as much so as corn. At Albenga, is a
rich plain opening from between two ridges of mountains, triangularly, to the sea, and of several
miles extent. Its growth is olives, figs, mulberries, vines, corn, and beans. There is some
pasture. A bishop resides here, whose revenue is forty thousand livres. This place is said
to be rendered unhealthy in summer, by the river which passes through the valley.

April 30. Oneglia. The wind continuing contrary, I took mules at Albenga for Oneglia. Along
this tract are many of the tree called caroubier, being a species of locust. It is the ceratonia
siliqua of Linnaeus. Its pods furnish food for horses, and also for the poor, in time of scarcity.
It abounds in Naples and Spain. Oneglia and Port Maurice, which are within a mile of each other,
are considerable places, and in a rich country. At St. Remo, are abundance of oranges and lemons,
and some palm trees.

May 1. Ventimiglia. Mentone. Monaco. Nice. At Bordighera, between Ventimiglia and Mentone,
are extensive plantations of palms, on the hill as well as in the plain. They bring fruit,
but it does not ripen. Something is made of the midrib which is in great demand at Rome, on
the Palm Sunday, and which renders this tree profitable here. From Mentone to Monaco, there
is more good land, and extensive groves of oranges and lemons. Orange water sells here at forty
sous, equal to sixteen pence sterling, the American quart. The distances on this coast are,
from La Spezia, at the eastern end of the territories of Genoa, to Genoa, fifty-five miles,
geometrical; to Savona, thirty; Albenga, thirty; Oneglia, twenty; Ventimiglia, twenty-five;
Monaco, ten; Nice, ten; in the whole, one hundred and eighty miles. A superb road might be
made along the margin of the sea from La Spezai, where the champaign country of Italy opens,
to Nice, where the Alps go off northwardly, and the post roads of France begin; and it might
even follow the margin of the sea quite to Cette. By this road, travellers would enter Italy
without crossing the Alps, and all the little insulated villages of the Genoese would communicate
together, and in time, form one continued village along that road.

May 3. Luc, Brignoles. Tourves. Pourcieux. La Galiniere. Long, small mountains, very rocky,
the soil reddish, from bad to middling; in olives, grapes, mulberries, vines, and corn. Brignolles
is an extensive plain, between two ridges of mountains, and along a water-course which continues
to Tourves. Thence to Pourcieux we cross a mountain, low and easy. The country is rocky and
poor. To La Galiniere are waving grounds, bounded by mountains of rock at a little distance.
There are some enclosures of dry wall from Luc to La Galiniere; also, sheep and hogs. There
is snow on the high mountains. I see no plums in the vicinities of Brignoles; which makes me
conjecture that the celebrated plum of that name is not derived from this place.

May 8. Orgon. Avignon. Vaucluse. Orgon is on the Durance. From thence, its plain opens till
it becomes common with that of the Rhone; so that from Orgon to Avignon is entirely a plain
of rich dark loam, which is in willows, mulberries, vines, corn, and pasture. A very few figs.
I see no olives in this plain. Probably the cold winds have too much power here. From the Bac
de Nova (where we cross the Durance) to Avignon, is about nine American miles; and from the
same Bac to Vaucluse, eleven miles. In the valley of Vaucluse, and on the hills impending over
it, are olive trees. The stream issuing from the fountain of Vaucluse is about twenty yards
wide, four or five feet deep, and of such rapidity that it could not be stemmed by a canoe.
They are now mowing hay, and gathering mulberry leaves. The high mountains just back of Vaucluse,
are covered with snow. Fine trout in the stream of Vaucluse, and the valley abounds peculiarly
with nightingales. The vin blanc de M. de Rochequde of Avignon, resembles dry Lisbon. He sells
it, at six years old, for twenty-two sous the bottle, the price of the bottle, &c. included.

Avignon. Remoulins. Some good plains, but generally hills, stony and poor. In olives, mulberries,
vines, and corn. Where it is waste the growth is chéne-vert, box, furze, thyme, and rosemary.

May 10. Lismes. Lunel. Hills on the right, plains on the left. The soil reddish, a little stony,
and of middling quality. The produce, olives, mulberries, vines, corn, saintfoin. No wood and
few enclosures. Lunel is famous for its vin de muscat blanc, thence called Lunel, or vin muscat
de Lunel. It is made from the raisin muscat, without fermenting the grain in the hopper. When
fermented, it makes a red muscat, taking the tinge from the dissolution of the skin of the
grape, which injures the quality. When a red muscat is required, they prefer coloring it with
a little Alicant wine. But the white is best. The pièce of two hundred and forty bottles, after
being properly drawn off from its lees, and ready for bottling, costs from one hundred and
twenty to two hundred livres, the first, quality and last vintage. It cannot be bought old,
the demand being sufficient to take it all the first year. There are not more than from fifty
to one hundred pièces a year, made of this first quality. A setterie yields about one pièce,
and my informer supposes there are about two setteries in an arpent. Portage to Paris, by land,
is fifteen livres the quintal. The best récoltes are those of M. Bouquet and M. Tremoulet.
The vines are in rows four feet apart, every way.

May 11. Montpelier. Snow on the Cevennes, still visible from here. With respect to the muscat
grape, of which the wine is made, there are two kinds, the red and the white. The first has
a red skin, but a white juice. If it be fermented in the cuve, the coloring matter which resides
in the skin, is imparted to the wine. If not fermented in the cuve, the wine is white. Of the
white grape, only a white wine can be made. The species of saintfoin cultivated here by the
name of sparsette, is the hedysarum onobrychis. They cultivate a great deal of madder (garance)
rubia tinctorum here, which is said to be immensely profitable. Monsieur de Gouan tells me,
that the pine, of which they use the burs for fuel, is the pinus sativus, being two-leaved.
They use-for an edging to the borders of their gardens, the santolina, which they call garderobe.
I find the yellow clover here, in a garden, and the large pigeon succeeding well, confined
in a house.

May 12. Frontignan. Some tolerably good plains in olives, vines, corn, saintfoin, and lucerne.
A great proportion of the hills are waste. There are some enclosures of stone, and some sheep.
The first four years of madder are unproductive; the fifth and sixth yield the whole value
of the land. Then it must be renewed. The sparsette is the common or true saintfoin. It lasts
about five years: in the best land it is cut twice, in May and September, and yields three
thousand pounds of dry hay to the setterie, the first cutting, and five hundred pounds, the
second. The setterie is of seventy-five dextres en tout sens, supposed about two arpents. Lucerne
is the best of all forage; it is sowed herein the broad-cast, and lasts about twelve or fourteen
years. It is cut four times a year, and yields six thousand pounds of dry hay, at the four
cuttings, to the setterie. The territory in which the vin muscat de Frontignan is made, is
about a league of three thousand toises long, and one fourth of a league broad. The soil is
reddish and stony, often as much stone as soil. On the left, it is a plain, on the right hills.
There are made about one thousand pièces (of two hundred and fifty bottles each) annually,
of which six hundred are of the first quality, made on the coteaux. Of these, Madame Soubeinan
makes two hundred, Monsieur Reboulle ninety, Monsieur Lambert, medecin de la faculte de Montpelier,
sixty, Monsieur Thomas, notaire, fifty, Monsieur Argilliers fifty, Monsieur Audibert forty;
equal to four hundred and ninety; and there are some small proprietors who make small quantities.
The first quality is sold, brut, for one hundred and twenty livres the pièce; but it is then
thick, and must have a winter and the fouet, to render it potable and brilliant. The fouet
is like a chocolate-mill, the handle of iron, the brush of stiff hair. In bottles, this wine
costs twenty-four sous, the bottle, &c. included. It is potable the April after it is made,
is best that year, and after ten years begins to have a pitchy taste, resembling it to Malaga.
It is not permitted to ferment more than half a day, because it would not be so liquorish.
The best color, and its natural one, is the amber. By force of whipping, it is made white,
but loses flavor. There are but two or three pièces a year of red Muscat made; there being
but one vineyard of the red grape, which belongs to a baker called Pascal. This sells in bottles
at thirty sous, the bottle included. Rondelle, négociant en vin, Porte St. Bernard, fauxbourg
St. Germain, Paris, buys three hundred pieces of the first quality every year. The coteaux
yield about half a piece to the setterie, the plains a whole piece. The inferior quality is
not at all esteemed. It is bought by the merchants of Cette, as is also the wine of Beziers,
and sold by them for Frontignan of the first quality. They sell thirty thousand pièces a year
under that name. The town of Frontignan marks its casks with a hot iron: an individual of that
place, having two casks emptied, was offered forty livres for the empty cask by a merchant
of Cette. The town of Frontignan contains about two thousand inhabitants; it is almost on the
level of the ocean. Transportation to Paris is fifteen livres the quintal, and takes fifteen
days. The price of packages is about eight livres eight sous the one hundred bottles. A setterie
of good vineyard sells for from three hundred and fifty to five hundred livres, and rents for
fifty livres. A laboring man hires at one hundred and fifty livres the year, and is fed and
lodged; a woman at half as much. Wheat sells at ten livres the settier, which weighs one hundred
pounds, poids de table. They make some Indian corn here, which is eaten by the poor. The olives
do not extend northward of this into the country above twelve or fifteen leagues. In general,
the olive country in Languedoc is about fifteen leagues broad. More of the waste lands between
Frontignan and Mirval are capable of culture; but it is a marshy country, very subject to fever
and ague, and generally unhealthy. Thence arises, as is said, a want of hands.

Cette. There are in this town about ten thousand inhabitants. Its principal commerce is wine;
it furnishes great quantities of grape-pumice for making verdigrise. They have a very growing
commerce; but it is kept under by the privileges of Marseilles.

May 13. Agde. On the right of the Etang de Thau are plains of some width, then hills, in olives,
vines, mulberry, corn, and pasture. On the left a narrow sand-bar, separating the Etang from
the sea, along which it is proposed to make a road from Cette to Agde. In this case, the post
would lead from Montpelier by Cette and Agde to Beziers, being leveller, and an hour or an
hour and a half nearer. Agde contains six or eight thousand inhabitants.

May 14. Beziers. Rich plains in corn, saintfoin, and pasture; hills at a little distance to
the right in olives; the soil both of hill and plain is red going from Agde to Beziers. But
at Beziers the country becomes hilly, and is in olives, corn, saintfoin, pasture, some vines,
and mulberries.

May 15. Beziers. Argilies. Le Saumal. From Argilies to Saumal are considerable plantations
of vines. Those on the red hills, to the right, are said to produce good wine. No wood, no
enclosures. There are sheep and good cattle. The Pyrenees are covered with snow. I am told
they are so in certain parts all the year. The canal of Languedoc, along which I now travel,
is six toises wide at bottom, and ten toises at the surface of the water, which is one toise
deep. The barks which navigate it are seventy and eighty feet long, and seventeen or eighteen
feet wide. They are drawn by one horse, and worked by two hands, one of which is generally
a woman. The locks are mostly kept by women, but the necessary operations are much too laborious
for them. The encroachments by the men, on the offices proper for the women, is a great derangement
in the order of things. Men are shoemakers, tailors, upholsterers, staymakers, mantua-makers,
cooks, housekeepers, house-cleaners, bed-makers, they coiffe the ladies, and bring them to
bed: the women, therefore, to live, are obliged to undertake the offices which they abandon.
They become porters, carters, reapers, sailors, lock-keepers, smiters on the anvil, cultivators
of the earth, &c. Can we wonder, if such of them as have a little beauty, prefer easier courses
to get their livelihood, as long as that beauty lasts? Ladies who employ men in the offices
which should be reserved for their sex, are they not bawds in effect? For every man whom they
thus emply, some girl, whose place he has thus taken, is driven to whoredom. The passage of
the eight locks at Beziers, that is, from the opening of the first to the last gate took one
hour and thirty-three minutes. The bark in which I go is about thirty-five feet long, drawn
by one horse, and goes from two to three geographical miles an hour. The canal yields abundance
of carp and eel. I see also small fish, resembling our perch and chub. Some plants of white
clover, and some of yellow, on the banks of the canal near Capestan; santolina also, and a
great deal of yellow iris. Met a raft of about three hundred and fifty beams, forty feet long,
and twelve or thirteen inches in diameter, formed into fourteen rafts, tacked together. The
extensive and numerous fields of saintfoin, in general bloom, are beautiful.

May 16. Le Saumal. Marseillette. May 17. Marseilleite. Carcassonne. From Saumal to Carcassonne
we have always the river Aube close on our left. This river runs in the valley between the
Cevennes and Pyrenees, serving as the common receptacle for both their waters. It is from fifty
to one hundred and fifty yards wide, always rapid, rocky, and insusceptible of navigation.
The canal passes in the side of hills made by that river, overlooks the river itself, and its
plains, and has its prospect ultimately terminated on one side by mountains of rock, overtopped
by the Pyrenees, on the other by small mountains, sometimes of rock, sometimes of soil, overtopped
by the Cevennes. Marseillette is on a ridge, which separates the river Aube from the Etang
de Marseillette. The canal, in its approach to this village, passes the ridge, and rides along
the front, overlooking the Etang, and the plains on its border; and having passed the village,
re-crosses the ridge, and resumes its general ground in front of the Aube. The land is in corn,
saintfoin, pasture, vines, mulberries, willows, and olives.

May 18. Carcassonne. Castelnaudari. Opposite to Carcassonne the canal receives the river Fresquel,
about thirty yards wide, which is its substantial supply of water from hence to Beziers. From
Beziers to Agde the river Orb furnishes it, and the Eraut, from Agde to the Etang de Thau.
By means of the écluse ronde at Agde, the waters of the Eraut can be thrown towards Beziers,
to aid those of the Orb, as far as the écluse de Porcaraigne, nine geometrical miles. Where
the Fresquel enters the canal, there is, on the opposite side, a waste, to let off the superfluous
waters. The horse-way is continued over this waste, by a bridge of stone of eighteen arches.
I observe them fishing in the canal, with a skimming net of about fifteen feet diameter, with
which they tell me they catch carp. Flax in blossom. Neither strawberries nor peas yet at Carcassonne.
The Windsor-bean just come to table. From the écluse de la Lande we see the last olive trees
near a metairée, or farm-house-, called La Lande. On a review of what I have seen and heard
of this tree, the following seem to be its northern limits. Beginning on the Atlantic, at the
Pyrenees, and along them to the meridian of La Lande, or of Carcassonne; up that meridian to
the Cevennes, as they begin just there to raise themselves high enough to afford it shelter.
Along the Cevennes, to the parallel of forty-five degrees of latitude, and along that parallel
(crossing the Rhone near the mouth of the Isere) to the Alps; thence along the Alps and Apennines,
to what parallel of latitude I know not. Yet here the tracing of the line becomes the most
interesting. For from the Atlantic, so far we see this production the effect of shelter and
latitude combined. But where does it venture to launch forth unprotected by shelter, and by
the mere force of latitude alone? Where, for instance, does its northern limit cross the Adriatic?
I learn, that the olive tree resists cold to eight degrees of Reaumur below the freezing-point,
which corresponds to fourteen above zero of Fahrenheit: and that the orange resists to four
degrees below freezing of Reaumur, which is twenty-three degrees above zero of Fahrenheit.

May 19. Castelnaudari. St. Feriol. Escamaze. Lampy. Some sheep and cattle; no enclosures. St.
Feriol, Escamaze, and Lampy are in the montagnes noires. The country almost entirely waste.
Some of it in shrubbery. The voute d'Escamaze is of one hundred and thirty-five yards. Round
about Castelnaudari the country is hilly, as it has been constantly from Beziers; it is very
rich. Where it is plain, or nearly plain, the soil is black: in general, however, it is hilly
and reddish, and in corn. They cultivate a great deal of Indian corn here, which they call
millet; it is planted, but not yet up.

May 20. Castelnaudari. Naurouze. Villefranche. Baziege. At Naurouze is the highest ground which
the canal had to pass between the two seas. It became necessary, then, to find water still
higher to bring it here. The river Fresquel heading by its two principal branches in the montagnes
noires, a considerable distance off to the eastward, the springs of the most western one were
brought together, and conducted to Naurouze, where its waters are divided, part furnishing
the canal towards the ocean, the rest towards the Mediterranean, as far as the écluse de Fresquel,
where, as has been before noted, the Lampy branch and the Alzau, under the name of the Fresquel,
enter.

May 20. They have found that a lock of six pieds is best; however, eight pieds is well enough.
Beyond this, it is bad. Monsieur Pin tells me of a lock of thirty pieds made in Sweden, of
which it is impossible to open the gates. They therefore divided it into four locks. The small
gates of the locks of this canal have six square pieds of surface. They tried the machinery
of the jack for opening them. They were more easily opened, but very subject to be deranged,
however strongly made. They returned, therefore, to the original wooden screw, which is excessively
slow and laborious. I calculate that five minutes are lost at every basin by this screw, which,
on the whole number of basins, is one eighth of the time necessary to navigate the canal: and
of course, if a method of lifting the gate at one stroke could be found, it would reduce the
passage from eight to seven days, and the freight equally. I suggested to Monsieur Pin and
others a quadrantal gate, turning on a pivot, and lifted by a lever like a pump-handle, aided
by a windlass and cord, if necessary. He will try it, and inform me of the success. The price
of transportation from Cette to Bordeaux, through the canal and Garonne is ------ the quintal:
round by the straits of Gibraltar is ------. Two hundred and forty barks, the largest of twenty-two
hundred quintals (or say, in general, of one hundred tons), suffice to perform the business
of this canal, which is stationary, having neither increased nor diminished for many years.
When pressed, they can pass and repass between Toulouse and Beziers in fourteen days; but sixteen
is the common period. The canal is navigated ten and a half months of the year: the other month
and a half being necessary to lay it dry, cleanse it, and repair the works. This is done in
July and August, when there would perhaps be a want of water.

May 21. Baziège. Toulouse. The country continues hilly, but very rich. It is in mulberries,
willows, some vines, corn, maize, pasture, beans, flax. A great number of chateaux and good
houses in the neighborhood of the canal. The people partly in farm-houses, partly in villages.
I suspect that the farm-houses are occupied by the farmers, while the laborers (who are mostly
by the day) reside in the villages. Neither strawberries nor pease yet at Baziege or Toulouse.
Near the latter are some fields of yellow clover.

At Toulouse the canal ends. It has four communications with the Mediterranean. 1. Through the
ponds of Thau, Frontignan, Palavas, Maguelone, and Manjo, the canal de la Radela Aigues-mortes,
le canal des Salines de Pecair, and the arm of the Rhone called Bras de Fer, which ends at
Fourgues, opposite to Arles, and thence down the Rhone. 2. At Cette, by a canal of a few hundred
toises, leading out of the Etang de Thau into the sea. The vessels pass the Etang, though a
length of nine thousand toises, with sails. 3. At Agde, by the river Eraut, twenty-five hundred
toises. It has but five or six pieds of water at its mouth. It is joined to the canal at the
upper part of this communication, by a branch of a canal two hundred and seventy toises long.
4. At Narbonne, by a canal they are now opening, which leads from the great canal near the
aqueduct of the river Cesse, twenty-six hundred toises, into the Aude. This new canal will
have five lock-basins, of about twelve pieds fall each. Then you are to cross the Aude very
obliquely, and descend a branch of it six thousand toises, through four lock-basins to Narbonne,
and from Narbonne down the same branch, twelve hundred toises into the Etang de Sigen, across
that Etang four thousand toises, issuing at an inlet, called Grau de la Nouvelle, into the
Gulf of Lyons. But only vessels of thirty or forty tons can enter this inlet. Of these four
communications, that of Cette only leads to a deep sea-port, because the exit is there by a
canal, and not a river. Those by the Rhone, Eraut, and Aude, are blocked up by bars at the
mouths of those rivers. It is remarkable, that all the rivers running into the Mediterranean
are obstructed at their entrance by bars and shallows, which often change their position. This
is the case with the Nile, Tiber, the Po, the Lez, le Lyoron, the Orbe, the Gly, the Tech,
the Tet, he. Indeed, the formation of these bars seems not confined to the mouths of the rivers,
though it takes place at them more certainly. Along almost the whole of the coast, from Marseilles
towards the Pyrenees, banks of sand are thrown up parallel with the coast, which have insulated
portions of the sea, that is, formed them into etangs, ponds, or sounds, through which here
and there narrow and shallow inlets only are preserved by the currents of the rivers. These
sounds fill up in time, with the mud and sand deposited in them by the rivers. Thus the Etang
de Vendres, navigated formerly by vessels of sixty tons, is now nearly filled up by the mud
and sand of the Aude. The Vistre and Vidourle, which formerly emptied themselves into the Gulf
of Lyons, are now received by the Etangs de Manjo and Aiguesmortes, that is to say, the part
of the Gulf of Lyons, which formerly received, and still receives those rivers, is now cut
off from the sea by a bar of sand, which has been thrown up in it, and has formed it into sounds.
Other proofs that the land gains there on the sea, are, that the towns of St. Giles and Notre
Dame d'Asposts, formerly seaports, are no far from the sea, and that Aiguesmortes, where are
still to be seen the iron rings to which vessels were formerly moored, and where St. Louis
embarked for Palestine, has now in its vicinities only ponds, which cannot be navigated, and
communicates with the sea by an inlet, called Grau du Roy, through which only fishing-barks
can pass. It is pretty well established, that all the Delta of Egypt has been formed by the
depositions of the Nile, and the alluvions of the sea, and it is probable that that operation
is still going on. Has this peculiarity of the Mediterranean any connection with the scantiness
of its tides, which, even at the equinoxes, are of two or three feet only? The communication
from the western end of the canal to the ocean, is by the river Garonne. This is navigated
by flat boats of eight hundred quintals, when the water is well; but when it is scanty, these
boats carry only two hundred quintals, till they get to the mouth of the Tarn. It has been
proposed to open a canal that far from Toulouse, along the right side of the river.

May 22. Toulouse. 23. Agen. 24. Castres. Bordeaux. The Garonne, and rivers emptying into it,
make extensive and rich plains, which are in mulberries, willows, corn, maize, pasture, beans,
and flax. The hills are in corn, maize, beans, and a considerable proportion of vines. There
seems to be as much maize as corn in this country. Of the latter, there is more rye than wheat.
The maize is now up, and about three inches high. It is sowed in rows two feet or two and a
half feet apart, and is pretty thick in the row. Doubtless they mean to thin it. There is a
great deal of a forage they call farouche. It is a species of red trefoil, with few leaves,
a very coarse stalk, and a cylindrical blossom of two inches in length, and three quarters
of an inch in diameter, consisting of floscules, exactly as does that of the red clover. It
seems to be a coarse food, but very plentiful. They say it is for their oxen. These are very
fine, large, and cream-colored. The services of the farm and of transportation are performed
chiefly by them. There are a few horses and asses, but no mules. Even in the city of Bordeaux
we see scarcely any beasts of draught but oxen. When we cross the Garonne at Langon, we find
the plains entirely of sand and gravel, and they continue so to Bordeaux. Where they are capable
of any thing, they are in vines, which are in rows, four, five, or six feet apart, and sometimes
more. Near Langon is Sauterne, where the best white wines of Bordeaux are made. The waste lands
are in fern, furze, shrubbery, and dwarf trees. The farmers live on their farms. At Agen, Castres,
Bordeaux, strawberries and pease are now brought to table; so that the country on the canal
of Languedoc seems to have later seasons than that east and west of it. What can be the cause?
To the eastward, the protection of the Cevennes makes the warm season advance sooner. Does
the neighborhood of the Mediterranean co-operate? And does that of the ocean mollify and advance
the season to the westward? There are ortolans at Agen, but none at Bordeaux. The buildings
on the canal and the Garonne are mostly of brick, the size of the bricks the same with that
of the ancient Roman brick, as seen in the remains of their buildings in this country. In those
of a circus at Bordeaux, considerable portions of which are standing, I measured the bricks,
and found them nineteen or twenty inches long, eleven or twelve inches wide, and from one and
a half to two inches thick; their texture as fine, compact, and solid as that of porcelain.
The bricks now made, though of the same dimensions, are not so fine. They are burnt in a kind
of furnace, and make excellent work. The elm tree shows itself at Bordeaux peculiarly proper
for being spread flat for arbors. Many are done in this way on the Quay des Charterons. Strawberries,
pease, and cherries at Bordeaux.

May 24, 25, 26, 27, 28. Bordeaux. The cantons in which the most celebrated wines of Bordeaux
are made, are Medoc down the river, Grave adjoining the city, and the parishes next above;
all on the same side of the river. In the first, is made red wine principally, in the two last,
white. In Medoc they plant the vines in cross-rows of three and a half pieds. They keep them
so low, that poles extended along the rows one way, horizontally, about fifteen or eighteen
inches above the ground, serve to tie the vines to, and leave the cross row open to the plough.
In Grave they set the plants in quincunx, i.e. in equilateral triangles of three and a half
pieds every side; and they stick a pole of six or eight feet high to every vine, separately.
The vine-stock is sometimes three or four feet high. They find these two methods equal in culture,
duration, quantity, and quality. The former, however, admits the alternative of tending by
hand or with the plough. The grafting of the vine, though a critical operation, is practised
with success. When the graft has taken, they bend it into the earth, and let it take root above
the scar. They begin to yield an indifferent wine at three years old, but not a good one till
twenty-five years, nor after eighty, when they begin to yield less, and worse, and must be
renewed. They give three or four workings in the year, each worth seventy or seventy-five livres
the journal, which is of eight hundred and forty square ioises, and contains about three thousand
plants. They dung a little in Medoc and Grave, because of the poverty of the soil; but very
little; as more would affect the wine. The journal yields, communions annis, about three pièces
(of two hundred and forty, or two hundred and fifty bottles each). The vineyards of first quality
are all worked by their proprietors. Those of the second, rent for three hundred livres the
journal: those of third, at two hundred livres. They employ a kind of overseer at four or five
hundred livres the year, finding him lodging and drink: but he feeds himself. He superintends
and directs, though he is expected to work but little. If the proprietor has a garden, the
overseer tends that. They never hire laborers by the year. The day wages for a man are thirty
sous, a woman's fifteen sous, feeding themselves. The women make the bundles of sarment, weed,
pull off the snails, tie the vines, and gather the grapes. During the vintage they are paid
high, and fed well.

Of Red wines, there are four vineyards of the first quality; viz. 1. Chateau Margau, belonging
to the Marquis d'Agincourt, who makes about one hundred and fifty tons, of one thousand bottles
each. He has engaged to Jernon, a merchant. 2. La Tour de Segur, en Saint Lambert, belonging
to Monsieur Miresmenil, who makes one hundred and twenty-five tons. 3. Hautbrion, belonging
two-thirds to M. le Comte de Femelle, who has engaged to Barton, a merchant: the other third
to the Comte de Toulouse, at Toulouse. The whole is seventy-five tons. 4. Chateau de la Fite,
belonging to the President Pichard, at Bordeaux, who makes one hundred and seventy-five tons.
The wines of the three first, are not in perfection till four years old: those of de la Fite,
being somewhat lighter, are good at three years; that is, the crop of 1786 is good in the spring
of 1789. These growths, of the year 1783, sell now at two thousand livres the ton; those of
1784, on account of the superior quality of that vintage, sell at twenty-four hundred livres;
those of 1785, at eighteen hundred livres; those of 1786, at eighteen hundred livres, though
they had sold at first for only fifteen hundred livres. Red wines of the second quality, are
Rozan, Dabbadie or Lionville, la Rose, Qui-rouen, Durfort; in all eight hundred tons, which
sell at one thousand livres, new. The third class, are Galons, Mouton, Gassie, Arboete, Pontette,
de Ferme, Candale; in all two thousand tons, at eight or nine hundred livres. After these,
they are reckoned common wines, and sell from five hundred livres, down to one hundred and
twenty livres, the ton. All red wines decline after a certain age, losing color, flavor, and
body. Those of Bordeaux begin to decline at about seven years old.

Of White wines, those made in the canton of Grave, are most esteemed at Bordeaux. The best
crops are, 1. Pontac, which formerly belonged to M. de Pontac, but now to M. de Lamont. He
makes forty tons, which sell at four hundred livres, new. 2. St. Brise, belonging to M. de
Pontac; thirty tons, at three hundred and fifty livres. 3. De Carbonius, belonging to the Benedictine
monks, who make fifty tons, and never selling till three or four years old, get eight hundred
livres the ton. Those made in the three parishes next above Grave, and more esteemed at Paris,
are, 1. Sauterne. The best crop belongs to M. Diquem at Bordeaux, or to M. de Salus, his son-in-law;
one hundred and fifty tons, at three hundred livres, new, and six hundred livres, old. The
next best crop is M. de Fillotte's, one hundred tons, sold at the same price. 2. Prignac. The
best is the President du Roy's, at Bordeaux. He makes one hundred and seventy-five tons, which
sell at three hundred livres, new, and six hundred livres, old. Those of 1784, for their extraordinary
quality, sell at eight hundred livres. 3. Barsac. The best belongs to the President Pichard,
who makes one hundred and fifty tons, at two hundred and eighteen livres, new, and six hundred
livres, old. Sauterne is the pleasantest; next Prignac, and lastly Barsac: but Barsac is the
strongest; next Prignac, and lastly Sauterne; and all stronger than Grave. There are other
good crops made in the same parishes of Sauterne, Prignac, and Barsac; but none as good as
these. There is a virgin wine, which, though made of a red grape, is of a light rose color,
because, being made without pressure, the coloring matter of the skin does not mix with the
juice. There are other white wines, from the preceding prices down to seventy-five livres.
In general, the white wines keep longest. They will be in perfection till fifteen or twenty
years of age. The best vintage now to be bought, is of 1784; both of red and white. There has
been no other good year since 1779. The celebrated vineyards before mentioned, are plains,
as is generally the canton of Medoc, and that of the Grave. The soil of Hautbrion, particularly,
which I examined, is a sand, in which is near as much round gravel or small stone, and very
little loam: and this is the general soil of Medoc. That of Pontac, which I examined also,
is a little different. It is clayey, with a fourth or fifth of fine rotten stone; and at two
feet depth, it becomes all a rotten stone. M. de Lamont tells me, he has a kind of grape without
seeds, which I did not formerly suppose to exist; but I saw at Marseilles dried raisins from
Smyrna without seeds. I see in his farm at Pontac, some plants of white clover, and a good
deal of yellow: also some small peach trees in the open ground. The principal English wine
merchants at Bordeaux, are Jernon, Barton, Johnston, Foster, Skinner, Copinger, and M'Cartey:
the chief French wine merchants, are Feger, Nerac, Bruneaux Jauge, and Du Verget. Desgrands,
a wine-broker, tells me they never mix the wines of first quality: but that they mix the inferior
ones to improve them. The smallest wines make the best brandy. They yield about a fifth or sixth.

May 28, 29. From Bordeaux to Blaye, the country near the river is hilly, chiefly in vines,
some corn, some pasture: further out, are plains, boggy and waste. The soil, in both cases,
clay and grit. Some sheep on the waste. To Etauliers, we have sometimes boggy plains, sometimes
waving grounds and sandy, always poor, generally waste, in fern and furze, with some corn however,
interspersed. To Mirambeau and St. Genis, it is hilly, poor, and mostly waste. There are some
corn and maize however, and better trees than usual. Towards Pons, it becomes a little red,
mostly rotten stone. There are vines, corn, and maize, which is up. At Pons we approach the
Charente; the country becomes better, a blackish mould mixed with a rotten chalky stone: a
great many vines, corn, maize, and farouche. From Lajart to Saintes and Rochefort, the soil
is reddish, its foundation a chalky rock, at about a foot depth; in vines, corn, maize, clover,
lucerne, and pasture. There are more and better trees than I have seen in all my journey; a
great many apple and cherry trees: fine cattle and many sheep.

May 30. From Rochefort to La Rochelle, it is sometimes hilly and red, with a chalky foundation,
middling good; in corn, pasture, and some waste: sometimes it is reclaimed marsh, in clover
and corn, except the parts accessible to the tide, which are in wild grass. About Rochelle,
it is a low plain. Towards Usseau, and halfway to Marans, level highlands, red, mixed with
an equal quantity of broken chalk; mostly in vines, some corn, and pasture: then to Marans
and halfway to St. Hermine, it is reclaimed marsh, dark, tolerably good, and all in pasture:
there we rise to plains a little higher, red, with a chalky foundation, boundless to the eye,
and altogether in corn and maize.

May 31. At St. Hermine, the country becomes very hilly, a red clay mixed with chalky stone,
generally waste, in furze and broom, with some patches of corn and maize; and so it continues
to Chantonay, and St. Fulgent. Through the whole of this road from Bordeaux, are frequent hedge
rows, and small patches of forest wood, not good, yet better than I had seen in the preceding
part of my journey. Towards Montaigu, the soil mends a little; the cultivated parts in corn
and pasture, the uncultivated in broom. It is in very small enclosures of ditch and quickset.
On approaching the Loire to Nantes, the country is leveller: the soil from Rochelle to this
place may be said to have been sometimes red, but oftener gray, and always on a chalky foundation.
The last census, of about 1770, made one hundred and twenty thousand inhabitants at Nantes.
They conjecture there are now one hundred and fifty thousand, which equals it to Bordeaux.

June 1,2. The country from Nantes to L'Orient is very hilly and poor, the soil gray; nearly
half is waste, in furze and broom, among which is some poor grass. The cultivated parts are
in corn, some maize, a good many apple trees; no vines. All is in small enclosures of quick
hedge and ditch. There are patches and hedge-rows of forest-wood, not quite deserving the name
of timber. The people are mostly in villages; they eat rye-bread, and are ragged. The villages
announce a general poverty, as does every other appearance. Women smite on the anvil, and work
with the hoe, and cows are yoked to labor. There are great numbers of cattle, insomuch that
butter is their staple. Neither asses nor mules: yet it is said that the fine mules I have
met with on my journey, are raised in Poictou. There are but few chateaux here. I observe mill-ponds,
and hoes with long handles. Have they not, in common with us, derived these from England, of
which Bretagne is probably a colony? L'Orient is supposed to contain twenty-five thousand inhabitants.
They tell me here, that to make a reasonable profit on potash and pearlash, as bought in America,
the former should sell at thirty livres, the latter thirty-six livres, the quintal. Of turpentine
they make no use in their vessels. Bayonne furnishes pitch enough; but tar is in demand, and
ours sells well. The tower of L'Orient is sixty-five pieds above the level of the sea, one
hundred and twenty pieds high, twenty-five pieds in diameter; the stairs four feet radius,
and cost thirty thousand livres, besides the materials of the old tower.

June 3, 4, 5. The country and productions from L'Orient to Rennes, and from Rennes to Nantes,
are precisely similar to those from Nantes to L'Orient. About Rennes, it is somewhat leveller,
perhaps less poor, and almost entirely in pasture. The soil always gray. Some small, separate
houses, which seem to be the residence of laborers, or very small farmers; the walls frequently
of mud, and the roofs generally covered with slate. Great plantations of walnut, and frequently
of pine. Some apple trees and sweet-briar still in bloom, and broom generally so. I have heard
no nightingale since the last day of May. There are gates in this country made in such a manner,
that the top rail of the gate overshoots backwards the hind post, so as to counterpoise the
gate, and prevent its swagging.

Nantes. Vessels of eight feet draught only can come to Nantes. Those which are larger, lie
at Painboeuf, ten leagues below Nantes, and five leagues above the mouth of the river. There
is a continued navigation from Nantes to Paris, through the Loire, the canal de Briare and
the Seine. Carolina rice is preferred to that of Lombardy for the Guinea trade, because it
requires less water to boil it.

June 6, 7, 8. Nantes. Ancenis. Angers. Tours. Ascending the Loire from Nantes, the road, as
far as Angers, leads over the hills, which are gray, oftener below than above mediocrity, and
in corn, pasture, vines, some maize, flax, and hemp. There are no waste lands. About the limits
of Bretagne and Anjou, which are between Loriottiere and St. George, the lands change for the
better. Here and there, we get views of the plains on the Loire, of some extent, and good appearance,
in corn and pasture. After passing Angers, the road is raised out of the reach of inundations,
so as at the same time to ward them off from the interior plains. It passes generally along
the river side; but sometimes leads through the plains, which, after we pass Angers, become
extensive and good, in corn, pasture, some maize, hemp, flax, pease, and beans; many willows,
also poplars and walnuts. The flax is near ripe. Sweet-briar in general bloom. Some broom here
still, on which the cattle and sheep browse in winter and spring, when they have no other green
food; and the hogs eat the blossoms and pods, in spring and summer. This blossom, though disagreeable
when smelt in a small quantity, is of delicious fragrance when there is a whole field of it.
There are some considerable vineyards in the river plains, just before we reach Les Trois Volets
(which is at the one hundred and thirty-sixth milestone), and after that, where the hills on
the left come into view, they are mostly in vines. Their soil is clayey and stony, a little
reddish, and of southern aspect. The hills on the other side of the river, looking to the north,
are not in vines. There is very good wine made on these hills; not equal indeed to the Bordeaux
of best quality, but to that of good quality, and like it. It is a great article of exportation
from Anjou and Touraine, and probably is sold abroad, under the name of Bordeaux. They are
now mowing the first crop of hay. All along both hills of the Loire, is a mass of white stone,
not durable, growing black with time, and so soft, that the people cut their houses out of
the solid, with all the partitions, chimnies, doors, &c. The hill sides resemble cony burrows,
full of inhabitants. The borders of the Loire are almost a continued village. There are many
chateaux: many cattle, sheep, and horses; some asses.

Tours is at the one hundred and nineteenth mile-stone. Being desirous of inquiring here into
a fact stated by Voltaire, in his Questions Encylopédiques, article Coquilles, relative to
the growth of shells unconnected with animal bodies at the Chateau of Monsieur de la Sauvagiere,
near Tours, I called on Monsieur Gentil, premier sécrétaire de l'ntendance, to whom the Intendant
had written on my behalf, at the request of the Marquis de Chastellux.

I stated to him the fact as advanced by Voltaire, and found he was, of all men, the best to
whom I could have addressed myself. He told me he had been in correspondence with Voltaire
on that very subject, and was perfectly acquainted with Monsieur de la Sauvagiere, and the
Faluniere where the fact is said to have taken place. It is at the Chateau de Grillemont, six
leagues from Tours, on the road to Bordeaux, belonging now to Monsieur d'Orcai. He says, that
De la Sauvagiere was a man of truth, and might be relied on for whatever facts he stated as
of his own observation; but that he was overcharged with imagination, which, in matters of
opinion and theory, often led him beyond his facts; that this feature in his character had
appeared principally in what he wrote on the antiquities of Touraine; but that as to the fact
in question, he believed him. That he himself, indeed, had not watched the same identical shells,
as Sauvagiere had done, growing from small to great; but that he had often seen such masses
of those shells of all sizes, from a point to a full size, as to carry conviction to his mind
that they were in the act of growing; that he had once made a collection of shells for the
Emperor's cabinet, reserving duplicates of them for himself; and that these afforded proofs
of the same fact; that he afterwards gave those duplicates to a Monsieur du Verget, a physician
of Tours, of great science and candor, who was collecting on a larger scale, and who was perfectly
in sentiment with Monsieur de la Sauvagiere, and not only the Faluniere, but many other places
about Tours, would convince any unbiassed observer, that shells are a fruit of the earth, spontaneously
produced; and he gave me a copy of De la Sauvagiere's Recueil de Dissertations, presented him
by the author, wherein is one Sur la vegetation spontanée des coquilles du Chateau des Places.
So far, I repeat from him. What are we to conclude? That we have not materials enough yet,
to form any conclusion. The fact stated by Sauvagiere is not against any law of nature, and
is therefore possible; but it is so little analogous to her habitual processes, that, if true,
it would be extraordinary: that to command our belief, therefore, there should be such a suite
of observations, as that their untruth would be more extraordinary than the existence of the
fact they affirm. The bark of trees, the skin of fruits and animals, the feathers of birds,
receive their growth and nutriment from the internal circulation of a juice through the vessels
of the individual they cover. We conclude from analogy, then, that the shells of the testaceous
tribe receive also their growth from a like internal circulation. If it be urged, that this
does not exclude the possibility of a like shell being produced by the passage of a fluid through
the pores of the circumjacent body, whether of earth, stone, or water; I answer, that it is
not within the usual economy of nature, to use two processes for one species of production.
While I withhold my assent, however, from this hypothesis, I must deny it to every other I
have ever seen, by which their authors pretend to account for the origin of shells in high
places. Some of these are against the laws of nature, and therefore impossible; and others
are built on positions more difficult to assent to, than that of De la Sauvagiere. They all
suppose these shells to have covered submarine animals, and have then to answer the question,
How came they fifteen thousand feet above the level of the sea? And they answer it, by demanding
what cannot be conceded. One, therefore, who had rather have no opinion than a false one, will
suppose this question one of those beyond the investigation of human sagacity; or wait till
further and fuller observations enable him to decide it.

Chanteloup. I heard a nightingale to-day at Chanteloup. The gardener says it is the male, who
alone sings, while the female sits; and that when the young are hatched, he also ceases. In
the boudoir at Chanteloup, is an ingenious contrivance to hide the projecting steps of a staircase.
Three steps were of necessity to project into the boudoir: they are therefore made triangular
steps; and instead of being rested on the floor, as usual, they are made fast at their broad
end to the stair door, swinging out and in, with that. When it shuts, it runs them under the
other steps; when open it brings them out to their proper place. In the kitchen garden, are
three pumps, worked by one horse. The pumps are placed in an equilateral triangle, each side
of which is of about thirty-five feet. In the centre is a post, ten or twelve feet high, and
one foot in diameter. In the top of this, enters the bent end of a lever, of about twelve or
fifteen feet long, with a swingle-tree at the other end. About three feet from the bent end,
it receives, on a pin, three horizontal bars of iron, which at their other end lay hold of
one corner of a quadrantal crank (like a bell crank) moving in a vertical plane, to the other
corner of which is hooked the vertical handle of the pump. The crank turns on its point as
a centre, by a pin or pivot passing through it. The horse moving the lever horizontally in
a circle, every point of the lever describes a horizontal circle. That which receives the three
bars, describes a circle of six feet in diameter. It gives a stroke then of six feet to the
handle of each pump, at each revolution.

Blois. Orleans. June 9, 10. At Blois, the road leaves the river, and traverses the hills, which
are mostly reddish, sometimes gray, good enough, in vines, corn, saintfoin. From Orleans to
the river Juines, at Etampes, it is a continued plain of corn, and saintfoin, tolerably good,
sometimes gray, sometimes red. From Etampes to Etrechy, the country is mountainous and rocky,
resembling that of Fontainebleau. Quere. If it may not be the same vein?

LETTER LVIII.--TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL, June 14, 1787

TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL.

Paris, June 14, 1787.

Dear Sir,

Having got back to Paris three days ago, I resume immediately the correspondence with which
you have been pleased to honor me. I wish I could have begun it with more agreeable information
than that furnished me by Mr. Grand, that the funds of the United States here are exhausted,
and himself considerably in advance; and by the board of treasury at New York, that they have
no immediate prospect of furnishing us supplies. We are thus left to shift for ourselves, without
previous warning. As soon as they shall replenish Mr. Grand's hands, I will give you notice,
that you may recommence your usual drafts on him; unless the board should provide a separate
fund for you, dependant on yourself alone, which I have strongly and repeatedly pressed on
them, in order to remove the indecency of suffering your drafts to pass through any intermediate
hand for payment.

My letters from America came down to the 24th of April. The disturbances in the Eastern States
were entirely settled. I do not learn that the government had made any examples. Mr. Hancock's
health being re-established, the want of which had occasioned him to resign the government
of Massachusetts, he has been re-elected to the exclusion of Governor Bowdoin. New York still
refuses to pass the impost in any form, and were she to pass it, Pennsylvania will not uncouple
it from the supplementary funds. These two States and Virginia, are the only ones, my letters
say, which have paid any thing into the Continental treasury, for a twelvemonth past. I send
you a copy of a circular letter from Congress to the several States, insisting on their removing
all obstructions to the recovery of British debts. This was hurried, that it might be delivered
to the Assembly of New York before they rose. It was delivered, but they did nothing in consequence
of it. The convention to be assembled at Philadelphia will be an able one. Ten States were
known to have appointed delegates. Maryland was about to appoint; Connecticut was doubtful;
and Rhode Island had refused. We are sure, however, of eleven States. South Carolina has prohibited
the importation of slaves for three years; which is a step towards a perpetual prohibition.
Between six and seven hundred thousand acres of land are actually surveyed into townships,
and the sales are to begin immediately. They are not to be sold for less than a dollar the
acre, in public certificates. I wrote you from Bordeaux on the subject of Colonel Smith. I
was sorry I missed him there, for other reasons as well as from a curiosity to know his errand.
The Notables have laid the foundation of much good here: you have seen it detailed in the public
papers. The Prince of Wales is likely to recover from his illness, which was very threatening.
It is feared, that three powers have combined to lift the Prince of Orange out of his difficulties.
Have you yet the cipher of which I formerly wrote to you, or any copy of it?

Paris, June 19, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I have received your favor of April the 23d, from New York, and am sorry to find you have had
a relapse. Time and temperance, however, will cure you; to which add exercise. I hope you have
long ago had a happy meeting with your friends, with whom a few hours would be to me an ineffable
feast. The face of Europe appears a little turbid, but all will subside. The Empress has endeavored
to bully the Turk, who laughed at her, and she is going back. The Emperor's reformations have
occasioned the appearance of insurrection in Flanders, and he, according to character, will
probably tread back his steps. A change of system here with respect to the Dutch, is suspected;
because the Kings of Prussia and England openly espouse the cause of the Stadtholder, and that
of the Patriots is likely to fall. The American acquaintances whom you left here, not being
stationary, you will hardly expect news of them. Mrs. Barrett, lately dead, was, I think, known
to you. I had a letter from Ledyard lately, dated at St. Petersburg. He had but two shirts,
and yet more shirts than shillings. Still he was determined to obtain the palm of being the
first circumambulator of the earth. He says, that having no money, they kick him from place
to place, and thus he expects to be kicked round the globe. Are you become a great walker?
You know I preach up that kind of exercise. Shall I send you a conte-pas? It will cost you
a dozen louis, but be a great stimulus to walking, as it will record your steps. I finished
my tour a week or ten days ago. I went as far as Turin, Milan, Genoa; and never passed three
months and a half more delightfully. I returned through the canal of Languedoc, by Bordeaux,
Nantes, L'Orient, and Rennes; then returned to Nantes, and came up the Loire to Orleans. I
was alone through the whole, and think one travels more usefully when alone, because he reflects
more.

Paris, June 20, 1787.

     [* Much of this letter is in cipher: but the notes annexed
     to it, have enabled the Editor to decipher and publish it.]

Dear Sir,

I wrote you last on the 30th of January, with a Postscript of February the 5th. Having set
out the last day of that month to try the waters of Aix, and been journeying since, till the
10th instant, I have been unable to continue my correspondence with you. In the mean time,
I have received your several favors of February the 15th, March the 18th and 19th, and April
the 23d. The last arrived here about the 25th of May, while those of March the 18th and 19th,
though written, five weeks earlier, arrived three weeks later. I mention this, to show you
how uncertain is the conveyance through England.

The idea of separating the executive business of the confederacy from Congress, as the judiciary
is already, in some degree, is just and necessary. I had frequently pressed on the members
individually, while in Congress, the doing this by a resolution of Congress for appointing
an executive committee, to act during the sessions of Congress, as the committee of the States
was to act during their vacations. But the referring to this committee all executive business,
as it should present itself, would require a more persevering self-denial than I suppose Congress
to possess. It will be much better to make that separation by a federal act. The negative proposed
to be given them on all the acts of the several legislatures, is now, for the first time, suggested
to my mind. Prima facie, I do not like it. It fails in an essential character; that the hole
and the patch should be commensurate. But this proposes to mend a small hole, by covering the
whole garment. Not more than one out of one hundred State acts, concern the confederacy. This
proposition, then, in order to give them one degree of power, which they ought to have, gives
them ninety-nine more, which they ought not to have, upon a presumption that they will not
exercise the ninety-nine. But upon every act there will be a preliminary question, Does this
act concern the confederacy? And was there ever a proposition so plain, as to pass Congress
without a debate? Their decisions are almost always wise; they are like pure metal. But you
know of how much dross this is the result. Would not an appeal from the State judicature to
a federal court, in all cases where the act of Confederation controlled the question, be as
effectual a remedy, and exactly commensurate to the defect. A British creditor, for example,
sues for his debt in Virginia; the defendant pleads an act of the State, excluding him from
their courts; the plaintiff urges the confederation, and the treaty made under that, as controlling
the State law; the judges are weak enough to decide according to the views of their legislature.
An appeal to a federal court gets all to rights. It will be said, that this court may encroach
on the jurisdiction of the State courts. It may. But there will be a power, to wit, Congress,
to watch and restrain them. But place the same authority in Congress itself, and there will
be no power above them to perform the same office. They will restrain within due bounds a jurisdiction
exercised by others, much more rigorously than if exercised by themselves.

I am uneasy at seeing that the sale of our western lands is not yet commenced. That valuable
fund for the immediate extinction of our debt will, I fear, be suffered to slip through our
fingers. Every day exposes it to events, which no human foresight can guard against. When we
consider the temper of the people of that country, derived from the circumstances which surround
them, we must suppose their separation possible, at every moment. If they can be retained till
their governments become settled and wise, they will remain with us always, and be a precious
part of our strength and our virtue. But this affair of the Mississippi, by showing that Congress
is capable of hesitating on a question, which proposes a clear sacrifice of the western to
the maritime States, will with difficulty be obliterated. The proposition of my going to Madrid,
to try to recover there the ground which has been lost at New York, by the concession of the
vote of seven States, I should think desperate. With respect to myself, weighing the pleasure
of the journey and bare possibility of success in one scale, and the strong probability of
failure and the public disappointment directed on me, in the other, the latter preponderates.
Add to this, that jealousy might be excited in the breast of a person, who could find occasions
of making me uneasy.

The late changes in the ministry here, excite considerable hopes. I think we gain in them all.
I am particularly happy at the reentry of Malesherbes into the Council. His knowledge and integrity
render his value inappreciable, and the greater to me, because, while he had no views of office,
we had established together the most unreserved intimacy. So far, too, I am pleased with Montmorin.
His honesty proceeds from the heart as well as the head, and therefore may be more surely counted
on. The King loves business, economy, order, and justice, and wishes sincerely the good of
his people; but he is irascible, rude, very limited in his understanding, and religious bordering
on bigotry. He has no mistress, loves his queen, and is too much governed by her. She is capricious,
like her brother, and governed by him; devoted to pleasure and expense; and not remarkable
for any other vices or virtues. Unhappily the King shows a propensity for the pleasures of
the table. That for drink has increased lately, or at least it has become more known.

For European news in general, I will refer you to my letter to Mr. Jay. Is it not possible,
that the occurrences in Holland may excite a desire in many of leaving that country, and transferring
their effects out of it, and thus make an opening for shifting into their hands the debts due
to this country, to its officers, and Farmers? It would be surely eligible. I believe Dumas,
if put on the watch, might alone suffice; but he surely might, if Mr. Adams should go when
the moment offers. Dumas has been in the habit of sending his letters open to me, to be forwarded
to Mr. Jay. During my absence, they passed through Mr. Short's hands, who made extracts from
them, by which I see he has been recommending himself and me for the money-negotiations in
Holland. It might be thought, perhaps, that I have encouraged him in this. Be assured, my Dear
Sir, that no such idea ever entered my head. On the contrary, it is a business which would
be the most disagreeable to me of all others, and for which I am the most unfit person living.
I do not understand bargaining, nor possess the dexterity requisite for the purpose. On the
other hand, Mr. Adams, whom I expressly and sincerely recommend, stands already on ground for
that business, which I could not gain in years. Pray set me to rights in the minds of those,
who may have supposed me privy to this proposition. En passant, I will observe with respect
to Mr. Dumas, that the death of the Count de Vergennes places Congress more at their ease,
how to dispose of him. Our credit has been ill treated here in public debate, and our debt
here deemed apocryphal. We should try to transfer this debt elsewhere, and leave nothing capable
of exciting ill thoughts between us. I shall mention in my letter to Mr. Jay, a disagreeable
affair which Mr. Barclay has been thrown into, at Bordeaux. An honester man cannot be found,
nor a slower, nor more decisive one. His affairs, too, are so embarrassed and desperate, that
the public reputation is, every moment, in danger of being compromitted with him. He is perfectly
amiable and honest, with all his embarrassments.

By the next packet, I shall be able to send you some books, as also your watch and pedometer.
The two last are not yet done. To search for books, and forward them to Havre, will require
more time than I had between my return and the departure of this packet. Having been a witness,
heretofore, to the divisions in Congress on the subject of their foreign ministers, it would
be a weakness in me to suppose none with respect to myself, or to count with any confidence
on the renewal of my commission, which expires on the 10th day of March next; and the more
so, as instead of requiring the disapprobation of seven States, as formerly, that of one suffices
for a recall, when Congress consists of only seven States, two, when of eight, &c. which I
suppose to be habitually their numbers at present. Whenever I leave this place, it will be
necessary to begin my arrangements six months before my departure; and these, once fairly begun
and under way, and my mind set homewards, a change of purpose could hardly take place. If it
should be the desire of Congress that I should continue still longer, I could wish to know
it, at farthest, by the packet which will sail from New York in September. Because, were I
to put off longer the quitting my house, selling my furniture, he, I should not have time left
to wind up my affairs; and having once quitted, and sold off my furniture, I could not think
of establishing myself here again. I take the liberty of mentioning this matter to you, not
with a desire to change the purpose of Congress, but to know it in time. I have never fixed
in my mind, the epoch of my return, so far as shall depend on myself, but I never supposed
it very distant. Probably I shall not risk a second vote on this subject. Such trifling things
may draw on me the displeasure of one or two States, and thus submit me to the disgrace of
a recall.

I thank you for the paccan nuts, which accompanied your letter of March. Could you procure
me a copy of the bill for proportioning crimes and punishments, in the form in which it was
ultimately rejected by the House of Delegates? Young Mr. Bannister desired me to send him regularly
the Mercure de France. I will ask leave to do this through you, and that you will adopt such
method of forwarding them to him, as will save him from being submitted to postage, which they
would not be worth. As a compensation for your trouble, you will be free to keep them till
you shall have read them.

Paris, June 21,1787.

Sir,

I had the honor of addressing you in a letter of May the 4th, from Marseilles, which was to
have gone by the last packet. Bat it arrived a few hours too late for that conveyance, and
has been committed to a private one, passing through England, with a promise that it should
go through no post-office.

I was desirous, while at the sea-ports, to obtain a list of the American vessels which have
come to them since the peace, in order to estimate their comparative importance to us, as well
as the general amount of our commerce with this country, so far as carried on in our own bottoms.
At Marseilles, I found there had been thirty-two, since that period; at Cette, not a single
one; at Bayonne, one of our free ports, only one. This last fact I learned from other information,
not having visited that place; as it would have been a deviation from my route, too considerable
for the importance of the object. At Bordeaux, Nantes, and L'Orient, I could not obtain lists
in the moment; but am in hopes I shall be able to get them ere long. Though more important
to us, they will probably be more imperfect than that of Marseilles. At Nantes, I began with
Monsieur Dobrée an arrangement of his claims. I visited the military stores, which have been
detained there so long, opened some boxes of each kind, and found the state of their contents
much better than had been represented. An exact list of the articles is to be sent me.

The importations into L'Orient of other fish-oils, besides those of the whale, brought to my
notice there a defect in the letter of Monsieur de Calonne, of October the 22nd, which letter
was formerly communicated to you. In that, whale oil only was named. The other fish-oils, therefore,
have continued to pay the old duties. In a conference with Monsieur de Villedeuil, the present
Comptroller General, since my return, I proposed the extending the exemption to all fish-oils,
according to the letter of the Hanseatic treaty, which had formed the basis of the regulations
respecting us. I think this will be agreed to. The delays of office first, then the illness
of Monsieur de Colonne, and lastly, his removal and the throng of business occasioned by the
Assemblée des Notables, have prevented the reducing the substance of the letter into the form
of an Arrêt, as yet though I have continued soliciting it as much as circumstances would bear.
I am now promised that it shall be done immediately, and it shall be so far retrospective to
the date of the letter, as that all duties paid since that, shall be refunded.

The new accessions of the ministry are valued here. Good is hoped from the Archbishop of Toulouse,
who succeeds the Count de Vergennes as Chef du Conseil de finance. Monsieur de Villedeuil,
the Comptroller General, has been approved by the public, in the offices he has heretofore
exercised. The Duke de Nivernois, called to the Council, is reckoned a good and able man; and
Monsieur de Malesherbes, called also to the Council, is unquestionably the first character
in the kingdom, for integrity, patriotism, knowledge, and experience in business. There is
a fear that the Marechal de Castries is disposed to retire.

The face of things in Europe is a little turbid, at present; but probably all will subside.
The Empress of Russia, it is supposed, will not push her pretensions against the Turks to actual
war. Weighing the fondness of the Emperor for innovation, against his want of perseverance,
it is difficult to calculate what he will do with his discontented subjects in Brabant and
Flanders. If those provinces alone were concerned, he would probably give back; but this would
induce an opposition to his plan, in all his other dominions. Perhaps he may be able to find
a compromise. The cause of the Patriots in Holland is a little clouded at present.

England and Prussia seem disposed to interpose effectually. The former has actually ordered
a fleet of six sail of the line, northwardly, under Gore; and the latter threatens to put her
troops into motion. The danger of losing such a weight in their scale, as that of Prussia,
would occasion this court to prefer conciliation to war. Add to this, the distress of their
finances, and perhaps not so warm a zeal in the new ministry for the innovations in Holland.
I hardly believe they will think it worth while to purchase the change of constitution proposed
there, at the expense of a war. But of these things, you will receive more particular and more
certain details from Mr. Dumas, to whom they belong.

Mr. Eden is appointed ambassador from England to Madrid. To the hatred borne us by his court
and country, is added a recollection of the circumstances of the unsuccessful embassy to America,
of which he made a part. So that I think he will carry to Madrid, dispositions to do us all
the ill he can.

The late change in the ministry is very favorable to the prospects of the Chevalier de la Luzerne.
The Count de Montmorin, Monsieur de Malesherbes, and Monsieur de Lamoignon, the Garde des Sceaux,
are his near relations. Probably something will be done for him, and without delay. The promise
of the former administration to the Count de Moutier, to succeed to this vacancy, should it
take place, will perhaps be performed by the present one.

Mr. Barclay has probably informed you of his having been arrested in Bordeaux, for a debt contracted
in the way of his commerce. He immediately applied to the parliament of that place, who ordered
his discharge. This took place after five days' actual imprisonment. I arrived at Bordeaux
a few days after his liberation. As the Procureur General of the King had interested himself
to obtain it, with uncommon zeal, and that too on public principles, I thought it my duty to
wait on him and return him my thanks. I did the same to the President of the parliament, for
the body over which he presided; what would have been an insult in America, being an indispensable
duty here. You will see by the enclosed printed paper, on what grounds the Procureur insisted
on Mr. Barclay's liberation. Those on which the parliament ordered it, are not expressed. On
my arrival here, I spoke with the minister on the subject. He observed, that the character
of Consul is no protection in this country, against process for debt: that as to the character
with which Mr. Barclay had been invested at the court of Morocco, it was questionable whether
it would be placed on the diplomatic line, as it had not been derived immediately from Congress;
that if it were, it would have covered him to Paris only, where he had received his commission,
had he proceeded directly thither, but that his long stay at Bordeaux, must be considered as
terminating it there. I observed to him, that Mr. Barclay had been arrested almost immediately
on his arrival at Bordeaux. But, says he, the arrest was made void by the parliament, and still
he has continued there several weeks. True, I replied, but his adversaries declared they would
arrest him again, the moment he should be out of the jurisdiction of the parliament of Bordeaux,
and have actually engaged the Maréchausée on the road, to do it. This seemed to impress him.
He said he could obtain a letter of safe conduct which would protect him to Paris, but that
immediately on his arrival here, he would be liable to arrest. I asked him, if such a letter
could not be obtained to protect him to Paris, and back to Bordeaux, and even to America? He
said, that for that, the consent of the greater part of his creditors would be necessary; and
even with this, it was very doubtful whether it could be obtained: still, if I would furnish
him with that consent, he would do what should depend on him. I am persuaded he will, and have
written to Mr. Barclay to obtain the consent of his creditors. This is the footing on which
this matter stands at present. I have stated it thus particularly, that you may know the truth,
which will probably be misrepresented in the English papers, to the prejudice of Mr. Barclay.
This matter has been a great affliction to him, but no dishonor where its true state is known.
Indeed he is incapable of doing any thing not strictly honorable.

In a letter of August the 30th, 1785, I had the honor of mentioning to you what had passed
here, on the subject of a convention for the regulation of the two post offices. I now inclose
you a letter from the Baron D'Ogny, who is at the head of that department, which shows that
he still expects some arrangement. I have heard it said, that M. de Creve-coeur is authorized
to treat on this subject. You doubtless know if this be true. The articles may certainly be
better adjusted there, than here. This letter from the Baron D'Ogny was in consequence of an
application from a servant of mine, during my absence, which would not have been made had I
been here. Nor will it be repeated; it being my opinion and practice to pay small sums of money,
rather than to ask favors.

I have the honor to inclose you also, copies of a letter and papers from the Marechal de Castries,
on the claim of an individual against the State of South Carolina, for services performed on
board the Indian; and the petition of another, on a like claim: also copies of letters received
from O'Bryan at Algiers, and from Mr. Lambe. A letter of the 26th of May, from Mr. Montgomery,
at Alicant, informs me, that by a vessel arrived at Carthagena from Algiers, they learn the
death of the Dey of that republic. Yet, as we hear nothing of it through any other channel,
it may be doubted. It escaped me at the time of my departure to Aix, to make arrangements for
sending you the gazettes regularly, by the packets. The whole are now sent, though a great
part of them are so old as to be not worth perusal. Your favor of April the 24th, has been
duly received.

Paris, June 30,1787.

On my return to Paris, it was among my first attentions to go to the rue Chaussée d'Antin,
No. 17, and inquire after my friends whom I had left there. I was told they were in England.
And how do you like England, Madam? I know your taste for the works of art gives you little
disposition to Anglomania. Their mechanics certainly exceed all others in some lines. But be
just to your own nation. They have not patience, it is true, to set rubbing a piece of steel
from morning to night, as a lethargic Englishman will do, full charged with porter. But do
not their benevolence, their cheerfulness, their amiability, when compared with the growling
temper and manners of the people among whom you are, compensate their want of patience? I am
in hopes that when the splendor of their shops, which is all that is worth seeing in London,
shall have lost the charm of novelty, you will turn a wishful eye to the good people of Paris,
and find that you cannot be so happy with any others. The Bois de Boulogne invites you earnestly
to come and survey its beautiful verdure, to retire to its umbrage from the heats of the season.
I was through it to-day, as I am every day. Every tree charged me with this invitation to you.
Passing by la Muette, it wished for you as a mistress. You want a country-house. This is for
sale; and in the Bois de Boulogne, which I have always insisted to be most worthy of your preference.
Come then, and buy it. If I had had confidence in your speedy return, I should have embarrassed
you in earnest with my little daughter. But an impatience to have her with me, after her separation
from her friends, added to a respect for your ease, has induced me to send a servant for her.

I tell you no news, because you have correspondents infinitely more au fait of the details
at Paris than I am. And I offer you no services, because I hope you will come as soon as the
letter could, which should command them. Be assured, however, that nobody is more disposed
to render them, nor entertains for you a more sincere and respectful attachment, than him,
who, after charging you with his compliments to Monsieur de Corny, has the honor of offering
you the homage of those sentiments of distinguished esteem and regard, with which he is, Dear
Madam, your most obedient and most humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LXIII.--TO JOHN ADAMS, July 1, 1787

TO JOHN ADAMS.

Paris, July 1, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I returned about three weeks ago from a very useless voyage; useless, I mean, as to the object
which first suggested it, that of trying the effect of the mineral waters of Aix, in Provence,
on my hand. I tried these, because recommended among six or eight others as equally beneficial,
and because they would place me at the beginning of a tour to the seaports of Marseilles, Bordeaux,
Nantes, and L'Orient, which I had long meditated, in hopes that a knowledge of the places and
persons concerned in our commerce, and the information to be got from them, might enable me
sometimes to be useful. I had expected to satisfy myself at Marseilles, of the causes of the
difference of quality between the rice of Carolina, and that of Piedmont, which is brought
in quantities to Marseilles. Not being able to do it, I made an excursion of three weeks into
the rice country beyond the Alps, going through it from Vercelli to Pavia, about sixty miles.
I found the difference to be, not in the management, as had been supposed both here and in
Carolina, but in the species of rice; and I hope to enable them in Carolina, to begin the cultivation
of the Piedmont rice, and carry it on, hand in hand, with their own, that they may supply both
qualities which is absolutely necessary at this market. I had before endeavored to lead the
depot of rice from Cowes to Honfleur, and hope to get it received there on such terms, as may
draw that branch of commerce from England to this country. It is an object of two hundred and
fifty thousand guineas a year. While passing through the towns of Turin, Milan, and Genoa,
I satisfied myself of the practicability of introducing our whale-oil for their consumption,
and suppose it would be equally so in the other great cities of that country. I was sorry that
I was not authorized to set the matter on foot. The merchants with whom I chose to ask conferences
met me freely, and communicated fully, knowing I was in a public character. I could, however,
only prepare a disposition to meet our oil-merchants. On the article of tobacco, I was more
in possession of my ground; and put matters into a train for inducing their government to draw
their tobaccos directly from the United States, and not, as heretofore, from Great Britain.
I am now occupied with the new ministry here, to put the concluding hand to the new regulations
for our commerce with this country, announced in the letter of Monsieur de Calonne, which I
sent you last fall. I am in hopes, in addition to those, to obtain a suppression of the duties
on tar, pitch, and turpentine, and, an extension of the privileges of American whale oil, to
their fish oils in general. I find that the quantity of cod-fish oil brought to L'Orient is
considerable. This being got off hand (which will be in a few days), the chicaneries and vexations
of the Farmers on the article of tobacco, and their elusions of the order of Bernis, call for
the next attention. I have reasons to hope good dispositions in the new ministry towards our
commerce with this country. Besides endeavoring, on all occasions, to multiply the points of
contact and connection with this country, which I consider as our surest mainstay under every
event, I have had it much at heart to remove from between us every subject of misunderstanding
or irritation. Our debts to the King, to the Officers, and the Farmers, are of this description.
The having complied with no part of our engagements in these, draws on us a great deal of censure,
and occasioned a language in the Assemblée des Notables, very likely to produce dissatisfaction
between us. Dumas being on the spot in Holland, I had asked of him some time ago, in confidence,
his opinion of the practicability of transferring these debts from France to Holland, and communicated
his answer to Congress, pressing them to get you to go over to Holland, and try to effect this
business. Your knowledge of the ground, and former successes, occasioned me to take this liberty
without consulting you, because I was sure you would not weigh your personal trouble against
public good. I have had no answer from Congress; but hearing of your journey to Holland, have
hoped that some money operation had led you there. If it related to the debts of this country,
I would ask a communication of what you think yourself at liberty to communicate, as it might
change the form of my answers to the eternal applications I receive. The debt to the officers
of France, carries an interest of about two thousand guineas, so we may suppose its principal
is between thirty and forty thousand. This makes more noise against us, than all our other
debts put together.

I send you the Arrêts which begin the reformation here, and some other publications respecting
America; together with copies of letters received from O'Bryan and Lambe. It is believed, that
a naval armament has been ordered at Brest, in correspondence with that of England. We know,
certainly, that orders are given to form a camp in the neighborhood of Brabant, and that Count
Rochambeau has the command of it. Its amount I cannot assert. Report says fifteen thousand
men. This will derange the plans of economy. I take the liberty of putting under your cover
a letter for Mrs. Kinloch, of South Carolina, with a packet, and will trouble you to inquire
for her, and have them delivered. The packet is of great consequence, and therefore referred
to her care, as she will know the safe opportunities of conveying it. Should you not be able
to find her, and can forward the packet to its address, by any very safe conveyance, I will
beg you to do it.

Paris, July 2,1787.

Dear Sir,

I received lately your favor of April the 23d, on my return from a journey of three or four
months; and am always happy in an occasion of recalling myself to your memory. The most interesting
intelligence from America, is that respecting the late insurrection in Massachusetts. The cause
of this has not been developed to me to my perfect satisfaction. The most probable is, that
those individuals were of the imprudent number of those who have involved themselves in debt
beyond their abilities to pay, and that a vigorous effort in that government to compel the
payment of private debts, and raise money for public ones, produced the resistance. I believe
you may be assured, than an idea or desire of returning to any thing like their ancient government,
never entered into their heads. I am not discouraged by this. For thus I calculate. An insurrection
in one of thirteen States, in the course of eleven years that they have subsisted, amounts
to one in any particular state, in one hundred and forty-three years, say a century and a half.
This would not be near as many as have happened in every other government that has ever existed.
So that we shall have the difference between a light and a heavy government as clear gain.
I have no fear, but that the result of our experiment will be, that men may be trusted to govern
themselves without a master. Could the contrary of this be proved, I should conclude, either
that there is no God, or that he is a malevolent being. You have heard of the federal convention,
now sitting at Philadelphia, for the amendment of the Confederation. Eleven States appointed
delegates certainly; it was expected that Connecticut would also appoint, the moment its Assembly
met. Rhode Island had refused. I expect they will propose several amendments; that that relative
to our commerce will probably be adopted immediately, but that the others must wait to be adopted,
one after another, in proportion as the minds of the States ripen for them. Dr. Franklin enjoys
good health.

Paris, July 2, 1787.

Dear Sir,

Your favor of February the 16th came to my hands in the moment I was setting out on a tour
through the southern parts of France and northern of Italy, from which I am but just now returned.
I avail myself of the earliest moment to acknowledge its receipt, and to thank you for the
box of magnets which I found here. Though I do not know certainly by or from whom they come,
I presume they came by Colonel Smith, who was here in my absence, and from Messrs. Nairne and
Blunt, through your good offices. I think your letter of February the 16th flatters me with
the expectation of another, with observations on the hygrometers I had proposed. I value what
comes from you too much, not to remind you of it. Your favor by Mr. Garnett also came during
my absence. I presume he has left Paris, as I can hear nothing of him. I have lost the opportunity,
therefore, of seeing his method of resisting friction, as well as of showing, by attentions
to him, respect for yourself and your recommendations. Mr. Paine (Common Sense) is here on
his way to England. He has brought the model of an iron bridge, with which he supposes a single
arch of four hundred feet may be made. It has not yet arrived in Paris. Among other projects,
with which we begin to abound in America, is one for finding the longitude by the variation
of the magnetic needle. The author supposes two points, one near each pole, through the northern
of which pass all the magnetic meridians of the northern hemisphere, and through the southern
those of the southern hemisphere. He determines their present position and periodical revolution.
It is said his publication is plausible. I have not seen it.

What are you going to do with your naval armament on your side the channel. Perhaps you will
ask me, what they are about to do here. A British navy and Prussian army hanging over Holland
on one side, a French navy and army hanging over it on the other, looks as if they thought
of fighting. Yet I think both parties too wise for that, too laudably intent on economizing,
rather than on further embarrassing their finances. May they not propose to have a force on
the spot to establish some neutral form of a constitution, which these powers will cook up
among themselves, without consulting the parties for whom it is intended? The affair of Geneva
shows such combinations possible. Wretched, indeed, is the nation, in whose affairs foreign
powers are once permitted to intermeddle. Lord Wycombe is with us at present. His good sense,
information, and discretion are much beyond his years, and promise good things for your country.

Paris, July 2, 1787.

I am sorry, my Dear Sir, that your interest should be affected by the ill behavior of Barrois.
But when you consider the facts, you will be sensible that I could not have indulged his indolence
further, without increasing the injury to a more punctual workman. Stockdale, of London, had
asked leave to print my Notes. I agreed to it; and promised he should have the plate of the
map as soon as it should be corrected, and the copies struck off for you and myself. He thereupon
printed his edition completely in three weeks. The printer, who was to strike off two hundred
and fifty maps for me, kept the plate but five days. It was then delivered to Barrois, with
notice that it could not be left longer with him, than should suffice to strike off his number.
Repeated applications for it, by Mr. Short and my servant, were only answered by repeated promises,
and times of delivery fixed, no one of which was performed. When I returned, he had been possessed
of the plate upwards of two months. I was astonished and confounded, to be told it had not
been sent to Stockdale, and that his edition had been lying dead on his hands three months.
I sent to Barrois the very day of my return, to let him know, that justice to Stockdale did
not permit me to defer sending him the plate any longer: yet I would wait five days, at the
end of which he must deliver me the plate, whether his maps were done or not. I received no
answer, but waited ten days. I then sent for the plate. The answer was, he was not at home.
I sent again the next day. Answer, he was not at home. I sent the third day. Not at home. I
then ordered the messenger to go back, and wait till he should come home. This produced an
answer of two lines, qu'il alloit soigner son ouvrier? I wrote him word in return, to deliver
the plate instantly. This I think was on a Saturday or Sunday. He told the messenger he would
let me have it the Thursday following. I took patience, and sent on the Friday, but telling
the messenger, if he refused to deliver it, to inform him I would be plagued no more with sending
messages, but apply to the police. He then delivered it, and I sent it off immediately to London.
He had kept it three months, of which three weeks were after my return. I think, Sir, you will
be satisfied that justice to Stockdale, justice to myself, who had passed my word for sending
on the plate, and sensibility to the shuffling conduct of Barrois, permitted me to act no otherwise.
But no matter. Let his ill behavior make no odds between you and me. It will affect your interest,
and that suffices to determine me to order back the plate, as soon as Stockdale has done with
it. He will not require more days, than Barrois months. So that it will be here before you
can want it. But it must never go into Barrois' hands again, nor of any person depending on
him, or under his orders. The workman who struck off the two hundred and fifty for me, seems
to have been diligent enough. Either he, or any other workman you please of that description,
shall have it, to strike what number you wish. I forgot to observe, in its proper place, that
when I was in the midst of my difficulties, I did myself the honor of calling on you, as well
to have that of asking after your health on my return, as of asking your assistance to obtain
the plate. Unluckily you were gone to Versailles; so I was obliged to proceed as well as I
could. It is no excuse for Barrois, to say, he could not get his imprimeur to proceed. He should
have applied to another. But as to you, it shall be set to rights in the manner I have before
stated. Accept my regret that you were in the hands of so underserving a workman, and one who
placed me under the necessity of interrupting a work which interested you.

OBSERVATIONS ON THE LETTER OF MONSIEUR DE CALONNE

     [The following observations appear to have been addressed to
     the Count de Montmorin, about the 6th of July, 1787.]

Observations on the Letter of Monsieur de Calonne to Monsieur Jefferson, dated, Fontainbleau,
October 22, 1786.

A committee was appointed, in the course of the last year, to take a view of the subjects of
commerce which might be brought from the United States of America, in exchange for those of
France, and to consider what advantages and facilities might be offered to encourage that commerce.
The letter of Monsieur de Calonne was founded on their report. It was conclusive as to the
articles on which satisfactory information had been then obtained, and reserved, for future
consideration, certain others, needing further inquiry. It is proposed now to review those
unfinished articles, that they may also be comprehended in the Arrêt, and the regulations on
this branch of commerce be rendered complete.

1. The letter promised to diminish the Droits du Roi et d'amirautè, payable by an American
vessel entering into a port at France, and to reduce what should remain into a single duty,
which shall be regulated by the draught of the vessel, or her number of masts. It is doubted
whether it will be expedient to regulate the duty, in either of these ways. If by the draught,of
water, it will fall unequally on us as a nation; because we build our vessels sharp-bottomed,
for swift sailing, so that they draw more water than those of other nations, of the same burthen.
If by the number of masts, it will fall unequally on individuals; because we often see ships
of one hundred and eighty tons, and brigs of three hundred and sixty. This, then, would produce
an inequality among individuals, of six to one. The present principle is the most just, to
regulate by the burthen. It is certainly desirable, that these duties should be reduced to
a single one. Their names and numbers perplex and harass the merchant, more than their amount;
subject him to imposition, and to the suspicion of it when there is none. An intention of general
reformation in this article has been accordingly announced, with augmentation as to foreigners.
We are in hopes, that this augmentation is not to respect us; because it is proposed as a measure
of reciprocity, whereas, in some of our States, no such duties exist, and in others they are
extremely light; because we have been made to hope a diminution, instead of augmentation; and
because this distinction cannot draw on France any just claims from other nations; the jura
gentis amicissima, conferred by her late treaties, having reference expressly to the nations
of Europe only; and those conferred by the more ancient ones not being susceptible of any other
interpretation, nor admitting a pretension of reference to a nation which did not then exist,
and which has come into existence under circumstances distinguishing its commerce from that
of all other nations. Merchandise received from them, takes employment from the poor of France;
ours gives it: theirs is brought in, the last stage of manufacture; ours in the first: we bring
our tobaccos to be manufactured into snuff, our flax and hemp into linen and cordage, our furs
into hats, skins into saddlery, shoes, and clothing; we take nothing till it has received the
last hand.

2. Fish-oils. The Hanseatic treaty was the basis, on which the diminution of duty on this article
was asked and granted. It is expressly referred to as such, in the letter of Monsieur de Calonne.
Instead, however, of the expression, huile et graisse de baleine et d'autres poisons, used
in that treaty, the letter uses the terms, 'huiles de baleine, spermaceti, et tout ce qui est
compris sous ces denominations.' And the Farmers have availed themselves of this variation,
to refuse the diminution of duty on the oils of the vache marine, chien de mer, esturgeon,
and other fish. It is proposed, therefore, to re-establish in the Arrêt, the expression of
the Hanseatic treaty, and to add, from the same treaty, the articles 'baleine coupée et fanon
de baleine.'

The letter states these regulations as finally made by the King. The merchants, on this supposition,
entered into speculations. But they found themselves called on for the old duties, not only
on other fish-oils, but on the whale-oil. Monsieur de Calonne always promised, that the Arrêt
should be retrospective to the date of the letter, so as to refund to them the duties they
had thus been obliged to pay. To this, attention is prayed in forming the Arrêt. His majesty
having been pleased, as an encouragement to the importation of our fish-oils, to abolish the
Droits de fabrication, it is presumed that the purpose announced, of continuing those duties
on foreign oils, will not be extended to us.

3. Rice. The duty on this, is only seven and a half deniers the quintal, or about one quarter
per cent, on its first cost. While this serves to inform a government of the quantities imported,
it cannot discourage that importation. Nothing further, therefore, is necessary on this article.

4. Potasse. This article is of principal utility to France, in her bleacheries of linen, glass-works,
and soap-works; and the potash of America, being made of green wood, is known to be the best
in the world. All duty on it was, therefore, abolished by the King. But the city of Rouen levies
on it a duty of twenty sols the quintal, which is very sensible in its price, brings it dearer
to the bleacheries near Paris, to those of Beauvais, Laval, &c. and to the glass-works, and
encourages them to give a preference to the potash or soude of other nations. This is a counteraction
of the views of the King, expressed in the letter, which it is hoped will be prevented.

5. Turpentine, tar, and pitch were not decided on, on the former occasion. Turpentine (térébenthine)
pays ten sols the quintal, and ten sols the livre, making fifteen sols the quintal; which is
ten per cent, on its prime cost. Tar (goudron, braigras) pays eight livres the leth of twelve
barrels, and ten sols the livre, amounting to twenty sols the barrel; which is twelve and a
half per cent, on its prime cost. Duties of from ten to twenty per cent., on articles of heavy
carriage, prevent their importation. They eat up all the profits of the merchant, and often
subject him to loss. This has been much the case with respect to turpentine, tar, and pitch,
which are principal articles of remittance for the State of North Carolina. It is hoped, that
it will coincide with the views of government, in making the present regulations, to suppress
the duties on these articles, which, of all others, can bear them least.

LETTER LXVII.--TO T. M. RANDOLPH, JUNIOR, July 6, 1787

TO T. M. RANDOLPH, JUNIOR.

Paris, July 6, 1787.

Dear Sir,

Your favor of April the 14th came here during my absence on a journey through the southern
parts of France and northern of Italy, from which I am but lately returned. This cause alone,
has prevented your receiving a more early answer to it. I am glad to find, that among the various
branches of science presenting themselves to your mind, you have fixed on that of politics
as your principal pursuit. Your country will derive from this a more immediate and sensible
benefit. She has much for you to do. For though we may say with confidence, that the worst
of the American constitutions, is better than the best which ever existed before, in any other
country, and that they are wonderfully perfect for a first essay, yet every human essay must
have defects. It will remain, therefore, to those now coming on the stage of public affairs,
to perfect what has been so well begun by those, going off it. Mathematics, Natural Philosophy,
Natural History, Anatomy, Chemistry, Botany, will become amusements for your hours of relaxation,
and auxiliaries to your principal studies. Precious and delightful ones they will be. As soon
as such a foundation is laid in them, as you may build on as you please, hereafter, I suppose
you will proceed to your main objects, Politics, Law, Rhetoric, and History. As to these, the
place where you study them is absolutely indifferent. I should except Rhetoric, a very essential
member of them, and which I suppose must be taught to advantage where you are. You would do
well, therefore, to attend the public exercises in this branch also, and to do it with very
particular diligence. This being done, the question arises, where you shall fix yourself for
studying Politics, Law, and History. I should not hesitate to decide in favor of France, because
you will, at the same time, be learning to speak the language of that country, become absolutely
essential under our present circumstances. The best method of doing this, would be to fix yourself
in some family where there are women and children, in Passy, Auteuil, or some other of the
little towns in reach of Paris. The principal hours of the day you will attend to your studies,
and in those of relaxation associate with the family. You will learn to speak better from women
and children in three months, than from men in a year. Such a situation, too, will render more
easy a due attention to economy of time and money. Having pursued your main studies here about
two years, and acquired a facility in speaking French, take a tour of four or five months through
this country and Italy, return then to Virginia, and pass a year in Williamsburg, under the
care of Mr. Wythe; and you will be ready to enter on the public stage, with superior advantages.
I have proposed to you to carry on the study of the law, with that of politics and history.
Every political measure will, for ever, have an intimate connection with the laws of the land;
and he who knows nothing of these, will always be perplexed, and often foiled by adversaries
having the advantage of that knowledge over him. Besides, it is a source of infinite comfort
to reflect, that under every change of fortune, we have a resource in ourselves, from which
we may be able to derive an honorable subsistence. I would, therefore, propose not only the
study, but the practice of the law for some time, to possess yourself of the habit of public
speaking. With respect to modern languages, French, as I have before observed, is indispensable.
Next to this, the Spanish is most important to an American. Our connection with Spain is already
important, and will become daily more so. Besides this, the ancient part of American history
is written chiefly in Spanish. To a person who would make a point of reading and speaking French
and Spanish, I should doubt the utility of learning Italian. These three languages, being all
degeneracies from the Latin, resemble one another so much, that I doubt the probability of
keeping in the head a distinct knowledge of them all. I suppose that he who learns them all,
will speak a compound of the three, and neither perfectly. The journey which I propose to you,
need not be expensive, and would be very useful. With your talents and industry, with science,
and that steadfast honesty which eternally pursues right, regardless of consequences, you may
promise yourself every thing--but health, without which there is no happiness. An attention
to health, then, should take place of every other object. The time necessary to secure this
by active exercises, should be devoted to it, in preference to every other pursuit. I know
the difficulty with which a studious man tears himself from his studies, at any given moment
of the day. But his happiness, and that of his family, depend on it. The most uninformed mind
with a healthy body, is happier than the wisest valetudinarian. I need not tell you, that if
I can be useful to you in any part of this, or any other plan you shall adopt, you will make
me happy by commanding my services.

Will you be so good, Sir, as to return my most respectful thanks for the diploma with which
I am honored by the society instituted with you, for the encouragement of the study of Natural
History. I am afraid it will never be in my power to contribute any thing to the object of
the institution. Circumstances have thrown me into a very different line of life; and not choice,
as I am happy to find in your case. In the year 1781, while confined to my room by a fall from
my horse, I wrote some Notes, in answer to the inquiries of M. de Marbois, as to the natural
and political state of Virginia. They were hasty and undigested: yet as some of these touch
slightly on some objects of its natural history, I will take the liberty of asking the society
to accept a copy of them. For the same reason, and because too, they touch on the political
condition of our country, I will beg leave to present you with a copy, and ask the favor of
you to find a conveyance for them, from London to Edinburgh. They are printed by Stockdale,
bookseller, Piccadilly, and will be ready in three or four weeks from this time. I will direct
him to deliver two copies to your order.

Paris, July 21,1787.

Sir,

I received your favor of May the 9th, just as I was stepping into the barge on my departure
from Cette; which prevented my answering it from that place. On my arrival here, I thought
I would avail myself of the opportunity of paying your balance, to make a little acquaintance
with Sir John Lambert. One or two unsuccessful attempts to find him at home, with the intermediate
procrastinations well known to men of business, prevented my seeing him till yesterday, and
have led me on to this moment, through a perpetual remorse of conscience for not writing to
you, and in the constant belief that it would be to morrow and to morrow. At length, I have
seen him, paid him the eighty-five livres which you have been so kind as to advance for me,
and am actually at my writing table, returning you thanks for this kindness, and to yourself
and the family for the thousand others I received at their hands, at Marseilles. My journey,
after leaving you, wanted nothing but the company of Madame Cathalan and yourself, to render
it perfectly agreeable. I felt the want of it peculiarly on the canal de Languedoc, where,
with society, the mode of travelling would have been charming. I was much indebted to M. Minaudier,
for a good equipment from Agde, and unceasing attentions to that place; for which I was indebted
to your recommendations as well as to his goodness.

I am honored with your father's letters of June the 30th; and as he does not read English,
and I cannot write French, I must beg leave to answer him through you. I thank him for his
hints on the subject of tobacco. I am now pressing for arrangements as to that article, to
take place on the expiration of Mr. Morris's contract, and the order of Bernis. What form this
business will take, or what will be the nature of the arrangements, or whether there will be
any, I am as yet unable to say. I will take care to inform you the moment there is a decision.

The public business with which Mr. Barclay has been charged rendering it necessary for him
to repair to Congress, and the interest of his creditors, his family, and himself requiring
his return to America, he has departed for that country. I know nothing of Mr. Barclay's affairs
in this country. He has good possessions in America, which, he assured me, were much more than
sufficient to satisfy all the demands against him. He went, determined to convert those immediately
into money, and to collect the debts due to him there, that he might be enabled to pay his
debts. My opinion of his integrity is such, as to leave no doubt in my mind, that he will do
every thing in his power to render justice to his creditors; and I know so well his attachment
to M. Cathalan, as to be satisfied, that if he makes any difference among his creditors, he
will be among the most favored. Mr. Barclay is an honest and honorable man, and is more goaded
towards the payment of his debts by his own feelings, than by all the processes of law, which
could be set on foot against him.

No arrangements having ever been made as yet, for cases like that of the carpenter of the American
ship Sally, I am unable to answer on that subject. I am in hopes, his money will last till
he recovers his senses, or till we can receive instructions what to do in that and similar cases.

M. Cathalan wishes a copy of my Notes on Virginia. If you will be so good as to advise me by
what channel they will go safely, I will do myself the honor of sending a copy, either of the
original or of the translation. Present me affectionately to Mrs. Cathalan, the mother and
daughter; tell the latter I feed on the hopes of seeing her one day at Paris.

Paris, July 22,1787.

Gentlemen,

I was honored, in the month of January last, with a letter from the honorable the Delegates
of Rhode Island in Congress, enclosing a letter from the corporation of Rhode Island College
to his Most Christian Majesty, and some other papers. I was then in the hurry of a preparation
for a journey into the south of France, and therefore unable, at that moment, to make the inquiries
which the object of the letter rendered necessary. As soon as I returned, which was in the
last month, I turned my attention to that object, which was the establishment of a professorship
of the French language in the College, and the obtaining a collection of the best French authors,
with the aid of the King. That neither the College nor myself might be compromitted uselessly,
I thought it necessary to sound, previously, those who were able to inform me what would be
the success of the application. I was assured, so as to leave no doubt, that it would not be
complied with; that there had never been an instance of the King's granting such a demand in
a foreign country, and that they would be cautious of setting the precedent: that in this moment,
too, they were embarrassed with the difficult operation of putting down all establishments
of their own, which could possibly be dispensed with, in order to bring their expenditures
down to the level of their receipts. Upon such information I was satisfied, that it was most
prudent not to deliver the letter, and spare to both parties the disagreeableness of giving
and receiving a denial. The King did give to two colleges in America copies of the works printing
in the public press. But were this to be obtained for the College of Rhode Island, it would
extend only to a volume or two of Buffon's works, still to be printed, Manilius's Astronomicon,
and one or two other works in the press, which are of no consequence. I did not think this
an object for the College worth being pressed. I beg the favor of you, gentlemen, to assure
the corporation, that no endeavors of mine should have been spared, could they have effected
their wish: and that they have been faithfully used in making the preliminary inquiries which
are necessary, and which ended in an assurance, that nothing could be done. These papers having
been transmitted to me through your delegation, will, I hope, be an apology for my availing
myself of the same channel for communicating the result.

Paris, July 23, 1787.

Sir,

I had the honor, a few days ago, of putting into the hands of your Excellency, some observations
on the other articles of American produce, brought into the ports of this country. That of
our tobaccos, from the particular form of their administration here, and their importance to
the King's revenues, has been placed on a separate line, and considered separately. I will
now ask permission to bring that subject under your consideration.

The mutual extension of their commerce was among the fairest advantages to be derived to France
and the United States, from the independence of the latter. An exportation of eighty millions,
chiefly in raw materials, is supposed to constitute the present limits of the commerce of the
United States with the nations of Europe; limits, however, which extend as their population
increases. To draw the best proportion of this into the ports of France, rather than of any
other nation, is believed to be the wish and interest of both. Of these eighty millions, thirty
are constituted by the single article of tobacco. Could the whole of this be brought into the
ports of France, to satisfy its own demands, and the residue to be re-vended to other nations,
it would be a powerful link of commercial connection. But we are far from this. Even her own
consumption, supposed to be nine millions, under the administration of the monopoly to which
it is farmed, enters little, as an article of exchange, into the commerce of the two nations.
When this article was first put into Farm, perhaps it did not injure the commercial interests
of the kingdom; because nothing but British manufactures were then allowed to be given in return
for American tobaccos. The laying the trade open, then, to all the subjects of France, could
not have relieved her from a payment in money. Circumstances are changed; yet the old institution
remains. The body to which this monopoly was given, was not mercantile. Their object is to
simplify, as much as possible, the administration of their affairs. They sell for cash; they
purchase, therefore, with cash. Their interest, their principles, and their practice seem opposed
to the general interest of the kingdom, which would require, that this capital article should
be laid open to a free exchange for the productions of this country. So far does the spirit
of simplifying their operations govern this body, that, relinquishing the advantages to be
derived from a competition of sellers, they contracted some time ago with a single person (Mr.
Morris) for three years' supplies of American tobacco, to be paid for in cash. They obliged
themselves, too, expressly, to employ no other person to purchase in America, during that term.
In consequence of this, the mercantile houses of France, concerned in sending her productions
to be exchanged for tobacco, cut off for three years from the hope of selling these tobaccos
in France, were of necessity to abandon that commerce. In consequence of this, too, a single
individual, constituted sole purchaser of so great a proportion of the tobaccos made, had the
price in his own power. A great reduction in it took place, and that not only on the quantity
he bought, but on the whole quantity made. The loss to the States producing the article, did
not go to cheapen it for their friends here. Their price was fixed. What was gained on their
consumption, was to enrich the person purchasing it; the rest, the monopolists and merchants
of other countries. The effect of this operation was vitally felt by every farmer in America,
concerned in the culture of this plant. At the end of the year, he found he had lost a fourth
or a third of his revenue; the State, the same proportion of its subjects of exchange with
other nations: the manufactures of this country, too, were either not to go there at all, or
go through the channel of a new monopoly, which, freed from the control of competition in prices
and qualities, was not likely to extend their consumption. It became necessary to relieve the
two countries from the fatal effects of this double monopoly. I had the honor of addressing
a letter, on the 15th day of August, 1785, to his late Excellency, the Count de Vergennes,
upon this subject, a copy of which I do myself the honor herein to enclose. The effectual mode
of relief was to lay the commerce open. But the King's interest was also to be guarded. A committee
was appointed to take this matter into consideration; and the result was, an order to the Farmers
General, that no such contract should be made again. And to furnish such aliment as might keep
that branch of commerce alive, till the expiration of the present contract, they were required
to put the merchants in general on a level with Mr. Morris, for the quantity of twelve or fifteen
thousand hogsheads a year. That this relief, too, might not be intercepted from the merchants
of the two suffering nations, by those of a neighboring one, and that the transportation of
so bulky an article might go to nourish their own shipping, no tobaccos were to be counted
of this purchase, but those brought in French or American vessels. Of this order, made at Bernis,
his Excellency, Count de Vergennes, was pleased to honor me with a communication, by a letter
of the 30th of May, 1786; desiring that I would publish it as well in America as to the American
merchants in France. I did so; communicating it to Congress at the same time. This order, thus
viewed, with the transactions which produced it, will be seen to have been necessary; and its
punctual and candid execution has been rendered still more so, by the speculations of the merchants,
entered into on the faith of it. Otherwise it would become the instrument of their ruin instead
of their relief. A twelvemonth has elapsed some time since; and it is questioned, whether the
Farmers General have purchased, within that time, the quantity prescribed, and on the conditions
prescribed. It would be impossible for the merchants to prove the negative; it will be easy
for the Farmers General to show the affirmative, if it exists. I hope that a branch of commerce
of this extent, will be thought interesting enough to both nations to render it the desire
of your Excellency to require, as I deem it my duty to ask, a report of the purchases they
have made, according to the conditions of the order of Bernis, specifying in that report, 1.
The quantities purchased; 2. the prices paid; 3. the dates of the purchase and payment; 4.
the flag of the vessel in which imported; 5. her name; 6. her port of delivery; and 7. the
name of the seller. The four first articles make part of the conditions required by the order
of Bernis; the three last may be necessary for the correction of any errors, which should happen
to arise in the report.

But the order of Bernis was never considered but as a temporary relief. The radical evil will
still remain. There will be but one purchaser in the kingdom, and the hazard of his refusal
will damp every mercantile speculation. It is very much to be desired, that before the expiration
of this order, some measure may be devised, which may bring this great article into free commerce
between the two nations. Had this been practicable at the time it was put into Farm, that mode
of collecting the revenue would probably never have been adopted: now that it has become practicable,
it seems reasonable to discontinue this mode, and to substitute some of those practised on
other imported articles, on which a revenue is levied, without absolutely suppressing them
in commerce. If the revenue can be secured, the interests of a few individuals will hardly
be permitted to weigh against those of as many millions, equally subjects of his Majesty, and
against those, too, of a nation allied to him by all the ties of treaty, of interest, and of
affection. The privileges of the most favored nation have been mutually exchanged by treaty.
But the productions of other nations, which do not rival those of France, are suffered to be
bought and sold freely within the kingdom. By prohibiting all his Majesty's subjects from dealing
in tobacco, except with a single company, one third of the exports of the United States are
rendered uncommerciable here. This production is so peculiarly theirs, that its shackles affect
no other nation. A relief from these shackles will form a memorable epoch in the commerce of
the two nations. It will establish at once a great basis of exchange serving, like a point
of union, to draw to it other members of our commerce. Nature, too, has conveniently assorted
our wants and our superfluities to each other. Each nation has exactly to spare the articles
which the other wants. We have a surplus of rice, tobacco, furs, peltry, potash, lamp-oils,
timber, which France wants; she has a surplus of wines, brandies, esculent oils, fruits, and
manufactures of all kinds, which we want. The governments have nothing to do, but not to hinder
their merchants from making the exchange. The difference of language, laws, and customs, will
be some obstacle for a time; but the interest of the merchants will surmount them. A more serious
obstacle is our debt to Great Britain. Yet, since the treaty between this country and that,
I should not despair of seeing that debt paid, in part, with the productions of France, if
our produce can obtain here a free course of exchange for them. The distant prospect is still
more promising. A century's experience has shown, that we double our numbers every twenty or
twenty-five years. No circumstance can be foreseen, at this moment, which will lessen our rate
of multiplication for centuries to come. For every article of the productions and manufactures
of this country, then, which can be introduced into habit there, the demand will double every
twenty or twenty-five years. And to introduce the habit, we have only to let the merchants
alone. Whether we may descend, by a single step, from the present state to that of perfect
freedom of commerce in this article; whether any, and what, intermediate operation may be necessary
to prepare the way to this; what cautions must be observed for the security of his Majesty's
revenue, which we do not wish to impair, will rest with the wisdom of his ministers, whose
knowledge of the subject will enable them to devise the best plans, and whose patriotism and
justice will dispose them to pursue them.

Paris, July 28, 1787.

Dear Sir,

A long journey has prevented me from writing to any of my friends for some time past. This
was undertaken with a view to benefit a dislocated and ill-set wrist, by the mineral waters
of Aix, in Provence. Finding this hope vain, I was led from other views to cross the Alps as
far as Turin, Milan, Genoa; to follow the Mediterranean as far as Cette, the canal of Languedoc,
the Garonne, &c, to Paris. A most pleasing journey it proved; arts and agriculture offering
something new at every step, and often things worth our imitation. But the accounts from our
country give me to believe, that we are not in a condition to hope for the imitation of any
thing good. All my letters are filled with details of our extravagance. From these accounts,
I look back to the time of the war, as a time of happiness and enjoyment, when amidst the privation
of many things not essential to happiness, we could not run in debt, because nobody would trust
us; when we practised, of necessity, the maxim of buying nothing but what we had money in our
pockets to pay for; a maxim, which, of all others, lays the broadest foundation for happiness.
I see no remedy to our evils, but an open course of law. Harsh as it may seem, it would relieve
the very patients who dread it, by stopping the course of their extravagance, before it renders
their affairs entirely desperate. The eternal and bitter strictures on our conduct, which teem
in every London paper, and are copied from them into others, fill me with anxiety on this subject.
The state of things in Europe is rather threatening at this moment. The innovations of the
Emperor in his dominions, have excited a spirit of resistance. His subjects in Brabant and
Flanders are arming, and he has put forty-five thousand troops in motion towards that country.
I believe they will come to blows. The parties in Holland have already spilt too much blood
to be easily stopped. If left to themselves, I apprehend the Stadtholderians will be too strong;
and if foreign powers interfere, the weight is still on their side. England and Prussia will
be too much for France. As it is certain that neither of these powers wish for war, and that
England and France are particularly averse to it, perhaps the matter may end in an armed mediation.
If the mediators should not agree, they will draw their negotiations into length, and trust
to the chapter of accidents for their final solution. With respect to our country, it stands
well with the present ministry here. The non-payment of our debt is against us. We are occupied
in procuring favorable terms of reception for our produce.

*****

Adieu, my Dear Sir, and be assured of the sentiments of sincere esteem of your affectionate
friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LXXII.--TO J. W. EPPES, July 28,1787

TO J. W. EPPES.

Paris, July 28,1787.

Dear Jack,

The letter which you were so kind as to write to me the 22nd of May, 1786, was not delivered
to me till the 3rd of May, 1787, when it found me in the neighborhood of Marseilles. Before
that time you must have taken your degree, as mentioned in your letter. Those public testimonies
which are earned by merit, and not by solicitation, may always be accepted without the imputation
of vanity. Of this nature is the degree which your masters proposed to confer on you. I congratulate
you sincerely on it. It will be a pleasing event to yourself; it will be the same to your parents
and friends, and to none more than myself. Go on deserving applause, and you will be sure to
meet with it: and the way to deserve it, is to be good, and to be industrious. I am sure you
will be good, and hope you will be industrious. As to your future plan, I am too distant from
you, to advise you on sure grounds. In general, I am of opinion that till the age of about
sixteen, we are best employed on languages; Latin, Greek, French, and Spanish, or such of them
as we can. After this, I think the College of William and Mary the best place to go through
courses of Mathematics, Natural Philosophy in its different branches, and Law. Of the languages
I have mentioned, I think Greek the least useful. Write me word, from time to time, how you
go on. I shall always be glad to assist you with any books you may have occasion for, and you
may count with certainty on every service I can ever render you, as well as on the sincere
esteem of, Dear Jack, yours affectionately,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LXXIII.--TO A. DONALD, July 28, 1787

TO A. DONALD.

Paris, July 28, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I received with infinite satisfaction your letter of the 1st of March: it was the first information
I had of your being in America. There is no person whom I shall see again with more cordial
joy, whenever it shall be my lot to return to my native country; nor any one whose prosperity,
in the mean time, will be more interesting to me. I find as I grow older, that I set a higher
value on the intimacies of my youth, and am more afflicted by whatever loses one of them to
me. Should it be in my power to render any service, in your shipment of tobacco to Havre de
Grace, I shall do it with great pleasure. The order of Bernis has, I believe, been evaded by
the Farmers General as much as possible. At this moment, I receive information from most of
the seaports, that they refuse taking any tobacco, under the pretext, that they have purchased
their whole quantity. From Havre I have heard nothing, and believe you will stand a better
chance there than any where else. Being one of the ports of manufacture, too, it is entitled
to a higher price. I have now desired that the Farmers may make a distinct return of their
purchases, which are conformable to the order of Bernis. If they have really bought their quantity,
on those terms, we must be satisfied: if they have not, I shall propose their being obliged
to make it up instantly. There is a considerable accumulation of tobacco in the ports.

Among many good qualities which my countrymen possess, some of a different character unhappily
mix themselves. The most remarkable are indolence, extravagance, and infidelity to their engagements.
Cure the two first, and the last would disappear, because it is a consequence of them, and
not proceeding from a want of morals. I know of no remedy against indolence and extravagance,
but a free course of justice. Every thing else is merely palliative: but unhappily, the evil
has gained too generally the mass of the nation, to leave the course of justice unobstructed.
The maxim of buying nothing without the money in our pockets to pay for it, would make of our
country one of the happiest upon earth. Experience during the war proved this; as I think every
man will remember, that under all the privations it obliged him to submit to, during that period,
he slept sounder, and awaked happier than he can do now. Desperate of finding relief from a
free course of justice, I look forward to the abolition of all credit, as the only other remedy
which can take place. I have seen, therefore, with pleasure, the exaggerations of our want
of faith, with which the London papers teem. It is, indeed, a strong medicine for sensible
minds, but it is a medicine. It will prevent their crediting us abroad, in which case, we cannot
be credited at home. I have been much concerned at the losses produced by the fire of Richmond.
I hope you have escaped them. It will give me much pleasure to hear from you, as often as you
can spare a moment to write.

Paris, July 30, 1787.

Sir,

Having observed that the consumption of rice in this country, and particularly in this capital,
was very great, I thought it my duty to inform myself from what markets they draw their supplies,
in what proportion from ours, and whether it might not be practicable to increase that proportion.
This city being little concerned in foreign commerce, it is difficult to obtain information
on particular branches of it in the detail. I addressed myself to the retailers of rice, and
from them received a mixture of truth and error, which I was unable to sift apart in the first
moment. Continuing, however, my inquiries, they produced at length this result; that the dealers
here, were in the habit of selling two qualities of rice, that of Carolina, with which they
were supplied chiefly from England, and that of Piedmont: that the Carolina rice was long,
slender, white, and transparent, answers well when prepared with milk, sugar, &ic. but not
so well when prepared au gras; that that of Piedmont was shorter, thicker, and less white,
but that it presented its form better when dressed au gras, was better tasted, and therefore
preferred by good judges for those purposes: that the consumption of rice, in this form, was
much the most considerable, but that the superior beauty of the Carolina rice, seducing the
eye of those purchasers who are attached to appearances, the demand for it was upon the whole
as great as for that of Piedmont. They supposed this difference of quality to proceed from
a difference of management; that the Carolina rice was husked with an instrument which broke
it more, and that less pains were taken to separate the broken from the unbroken grains; imagining
that it was the broken grains which dissolved in oily preparations: that the Carolina rice
costs somewhat less than that of Piedmont; but that being obliged to sort the whole grains
from the broken, in order to satisfy the taste of their customers, they ask and receive as
much for the first quality of Carolina, when sorted, as for the rice of Piedmont; but the second
and third qualities, obtained by sorting, are sold much cheaper. The objection to the Carolina
rice then, being, that it crumbles in certain forms of preparation, and this supposed to be
the effect of a less perfect machine for husking, I flattered myself I should be able to learn
what might be the machine of Piedmont, when I should arrive at Marseilles, to which place I
was to go in the course of a tour through the seaport towns of this country. At Marseilles,
however, they differed as much in the account of the machine, as at Paris they had differed
about other circumstances. Some said it was husked between mill-stones, others between rubbers
of wood in the form of mill-stones, others of cork. They concurred in one fact, however, that
the machine might be seen by me, immediately on crossing the Alps. This would be an affair
of three weeks. I crossed them, and went through the rice country from Vercelli to Pavia, about
sixty miles. I found the machine to be absolutely the same with that used in Carolina, as well
as I could recollect a description which Mr. E. Rutledge had given me of it. It is on the plan
of a powder-mill. In some of them, indeed, they arm each pestle with an iron tooth, consisting
of nine spikes hooped together, which I do not remember in the description of Mr. Rutledge.
I therefore had a tooth made, which I have the honor of forwarding you with this letter; observing,
at the same time, that as many of their machines are without teeth as with them, and of course,
that the advantage is not very palpable. It seems to follow, then, that the rice of Lombardy
(for though called Piedmont rice, it does not grow in that country, but in Lombardy) is of
a different species from that of Carolina; different in form, in color, and in quality. We
know that in Asia they have several distinct species of this grain. Monsieur Poivre, a former
Governor of the Isle of France, in travelling through several countries of Asia, observed with
particular attention the objects of their agriculture, and he tells us, that in Cochin-China
they cultivate six several kinds of rice, which he describes, three of them requiring water,
and three growing on highlands. The rice of Carolina is said to have come from Madagascar,
and De Poivre tells us, it is the white rice which is cultivated there. This favors the probability
of its being of a different species originally, from that of Piedmont; and time, culture, and
climate may have made it still more different. Under this idea, I thought it would be well
to furnish you with some of the Piedmont rice, unhusked, but was told it was contrary to the
laws to export it in that form. I took such measures as I could, however, to have a quantity
brought out, and lest these should fail, I brought, myself, a few pounds. A part of this I
have addressed to you by the way of London; a part comes with this letter; and I shall send
another parcel by some other conveyance, to prevent the danger of miscarriage. Any one of them
arriving safe, may serve to put in seed, should the society think it an object. This seed,
too, coming from Vercelli, where the best rice is supposed to grow, is more to be depended
on, than what may be sent me hereafter. There is a rice from the Levant, which is considered
as of a quality still different, and some think it superior to that of Piedmont. The troubles
which have existed in that country for several years back, have intercepted it from the European
market, so that it is become almost unknown. I procured a bag of it, however, at Marseilles,
and another of the best rice of Lombardy, which are on their way to this place, and when arrived,
I will forward you a quantity of each, sufficient to enable you to judge of their qualities
when prepared for the table. I have also taken measures to have a quantity of it brought from
the Levant, unhusked. If I succeed, it shall be forwarded in like manner. I should think it
certainly advantageous to cultivate, in Carolina and Georgia, the two qualities demanded at
market; because the progress of culture, with us, may soon get beyond the demand for the white
rice; and because, too, there is often a brisk demand for the one quality, when the market
is glutted with the other. I should hope there would be no danger of losing the species of
white rice, by a confusion with the other. This would be a real misfortune, as I should not
hesitate to pronounce the white, upon the whole, the most precious of the two, for us.

The dry rice of Cochin-China has the reputation of being the whitest to the eye, best flavored
to the taste, and most productive. It seems then to unite the good qualities of both the others
known to us. Could it supplant them, it would be a great happiness, as it would enable us to
get rid of those ponds of stagnant water, so fatal to human health and life. But such is the
force of habit, and caprice of taste, that we could not be sure beforehand, it would produce
this effect. The experiment, however, is worth trying, should it only end in producing a third
quality, and increasing the demand. I will endeavor to procure some to be brought from Cochin-China.
The event, however, will be uncertain and distant.

I was induced, in the course of my journey through the south of France, to pay very particular
attention to the objects of their culture, because the resemblance of their climate to that
of the southern parts of the United States authorizes us to presume we may adopt any of their
articles of culture, which we would wish for. We should not wish for their wines, though they
are good and abundant. The culture of the vine is not desirable in lands capable of producing
any thing else. It is a species of gambling, and of desperate gambling too, wherein, whether
you make much or nothing, you are equally ruined. The middling crop alone is the saving point,
and that the seasons seldom hit. Accordingly, we see much wretchedness among this class of
cultivators. Wine, too, is so cheap in these countries, that a laborer with us, employed in
the culture of any other article, may exchange it for wine, more and better than he could raise
himself. It is a resource for a country, the whole of whose good soil is otherwise employed,
and which still has some barren spots, and a surplus of population to employ on them. There
the vine is good, because it is something in the place of nothing. It may become a resource
to us at a still earlier period: when the increase of population shall increase our productions
beyond the demand for them, both at home and abroad. Instead of going on to make an useless
surplus of them, we may employ our supernumerary hands on the vine. But that period is not
yet arrived.

The almond tree is also so precarious, that none can depend for subsistence on its produce,
but persons of capital.

The caper, though a more tender plant, is more certain in its produce, because a mound of earth
of the size of a cucumber hill, thrown over the plant in the fall, protects it effectually
against the cold of winter. When the danger of frost is over in the spring, they uncover it,
and begin its culture. There is a great deal of this in the neighborhood of Toulon. The plants
are set about eight feet apart, and yield, one year with another, about two pounds of caper
each, worth on the spot six pence sterling the pound. They require little culture, and this
may be performed either with the plough or hoe. The principal work is the gathering of the
fruit as it forms. Every plant must be picked every other day, from the last of June till the
middle of October. But this is the work of women and children. This plant does well in any
kind of soil which is dry, or even in walls where there is no soil, and it lasts the life of
a man. Toulon would be the proper port to apply for them. I must observe, that the preceding
details cannot be relied on with the fullest certainty, because, in the canton where this plant
is cultivated, the inhabitants speak no written language, but a medley, which I could understand
but very imperfectly.

The fig and mulberry are so well known in America, that nothing need be said of them. Their
culture, too, is by women and children, and therefore earnestly to be desired in countries
where there are slaves. In these, the women and children are often employed in labors disproportioned
to their sex and age. By presenting to the master objects of culture, easier and equally beneficial,
all temptation to misemploy them would be removed, and the lot of this tender part of our species
be much softened. By varying too the articles of culture, we multiply the chances for making
something, and disarm the seasons, in a proportionable degree, of their calamitous effects.

The olive is a tree the least known in America, and yet the most worthy of being known. Of
all the gifts of heaven to man, it is next to the most precious, if it be not the most precious.
Perhaps it may claim a preference even to bread; because there is such an infinitude of vegetables,
which it renders a proper and comfortable nourishment. In passing the Alps at the Col de Tende,
where they are mere masses of rock, wherever there happens to be a little soil, there are a
number of olive trees, and a village supported by them. Take away these trees, and the same
ground, in corn, would not support a single family. A pound of oil, which can be bought for
three or four pence sterling, is equivalent to many pounds of flesh, by the quantity of vegetables
it will prepare, and render fit and comfortable food. Without this tree, the country of Provence
and territory of Genoa, would not support one half, perhaps not one third, their present inhabitants.
The nature of the soil is of little consequence, if it be dry. The trees are planted from fifteen
to twenty feet apart, and when tolerably good, will yield fifteen or twenty pounds of oil yearly,
one with another. There are trees which yield much more. They begin to render good crops at
twenty years old, and last till killed by cold, which happens at some time or other, even in
their best positions in France. But they put out again from their roots. In Italy, I am told,
they have trees of two hundred years old. They afford an easy but constant employment through
the year, and require so little nourishment, that if the soil be fit for any other production,
it may be cultivated among the olive trees, without injuring them. The northern limits of this
tree, are the mountains of the Cevennes, from about the meridian of Carcassonne to the Rhone,
and from thence, the Alps and Apennines as far as Genoa, I know, and how much farther I am
not informed. The shelter of these mountains may be considered as equivalent to a degree and
a half of latitude, at least; because westward of the commencement of the Cevennes, there are
no olive trees in 43 1/2° or even 43° of latitude, whereas, we find them now on the Rhone at
Pierrelatte, in 44 1/2°, and formerly they were at Tains, above the mouth of the Isere, in
45°, sheltered by the near approach of the Cevennes and Alps, which only leave there a passage
for the Rhone. Whether such a shelter exists or not, in the States of South Carolina and Georgia,
I know not. But this we may say, either that it exists, or that it is not necessary there;
because we know that they produce the orange in open air; and wherever the orange will stand
at all, experience shows that the olive will stand well; being a hardier tree. Notwithstanding
the great quantities of oil made in France, they have not enough for their own consumption,
and therefore import from other countries. This is an article, the consumption of which will
always keep pace with its production. Raise it; and it begets its own demand. Little is carried
to America, because Europe has it not to spare. We therefore have not learned the use of it.
But cover the southern States with it, and every man will become a consumer of oil, within
whose reach it can be brought, in point of price. If the memory of those persons is held in
great respect in South Carolina, who introduced there the culture of rice, a plant which sows
life and death with almost equal hand, what obligations would be due to him who should introduce
the olive tree, and set the example of its culture! Were the owner of slaves to view it only
as the means of bettering their condition, how much would he better that, by planting one of
those trees for every slave he possessed! Having been myself an eye-witness to the blessings
which this tree sheds on the poor, I never had my wishes so kindled for the introduction of
any article of new culture into our own country. South Carolina and Georgia appear to me to
be the States, wherein its success, in favorable positions at least, could not be doubted,
and I flattered myself, it would come within the views of the society for agriculture, to begin
the experiments which are to prove its practicability. Carcassonne is the place from which
the plants may be most certainly and cheaply obtained. They can be sent from thence by water
to Bordeaux, where they may be embarked on vessels bound to Charleston. There is too little
intercourse between Charleston and Marseilles, to propose this as the port of exportation.
I offer my services to the society, for the obtaining and forwarding any number of plants which
may be desired.

Before I quit the subject of climates, and the plants adapted to them, I will add, as a matter
of curiosity, and of some utility too, that my journey through the southern parts of France,
and the territory of Genoa, but still more the crossing of the Alps, enabled me to form a scale
of the tenderer plants, and to arrange them according to their different powers of resisting
cold. In passing the Alps at the Col de Tende, we cross three very high mountains, successively.
In ascending, we lose these plants, one after another, as we rise, and find them again in the
contrary order, as we descend on the other side; and this is repeated three times.

I had the honor of sending you, the last year, some seeds of the sulla of Malta, or Spanish
saintfoin. Lest they should have miscarried, I now pack with the rice a canister of the same
kind of seed, raised by myself. By Colonel Franks, in the month of February last, I sent a
parcel of acorns of the cork-oak, which I desired him to ask the favor of the Delegates of
South Carolina in Congress, to forward to you.

Paris, August 2, 1787.

Dear Sir,

My last was of June the 20th. Yours, received since that date, are of May the 15th, and June
the 6th. In mine, I acknowledged the receipt of the paccan nuts which came sealed up. I have
reason to believe those in the box have arrived at L'Orient. By the Mary, Captain Howland,
lately sailed from Havre to New York, I shipped three boxes of books, one marked J. M. for
yourself, one marked B. F. for Dr. Franklin, and one marked W. H. for William Hay in Richmond.
I have taken the liberty of addressing them all to you, as you will see by the enclosed bill
of lading, in hopes you will be so good as to forward the other two. You will have opportunities
of calling on the gentlemen for the freight, &c. In yours, you will find the books, noted in
the account enclosed herewith. You have now Mably's works complete, except that on Poland,
which I have never been able to get, but shall not cease to search for. Some other volumes
are wanting too, to complete your collection of Chronologies. The fourth volume of D'Albon
was lost by the bookbinder, and I have not yet been able to get one to replace it. I shall
continue to try. The Memoires sur les Droits et Impositions en Europe (cited by Smith) was
a scarce and excessively dear book. They are now reprinting it. I think it will be in three
or four quartos, of from nine to twelve livres a volume. When it is finished, I shall take
a copy for you. Amelot's Travels into China, I can learn nothing of. I put among the books
sent you, two somewhat voluminous, and the object of which will need explanation; these are
the Tableau de Paris and L'Espion Anglois. The former is truly a picture of private manners
in Paris, but presented on the dark side, and a little darkened moreover. But there is so much
truth in its groundwork, that it will be well worth your reading. You will then know Paris
(and probably the other large cities of Europe) as well as if you had been there for years.
L'Espion Anglois is no caricature. It will give you a just idea of the wheels by which the
machine of government is worked here. There are in it, also, many interesting details of the
last war, which, in general, may be relied on. It may be considered as the small history of
great events. I am in hopes, when you shall have read them, you will not think I have misspent
your money for them. My method for making out this assortment was, to revise the list of my
own purchases since the invoice of 1785, and to select such as I had found worth your having.
Besides this, I have casually met with, and purchased, some few curious and cheap things.

I must trouble you on behalf of a Mr. Thomas Burke, at Loughburke near Loughrea in Ireland,
whose brother, James Burke, is supposed to have died, in 1785, on his passage from Jamaica,
or St. Eustatius, to New York. His property on board the vessel is understood to have come
to the hands of Alderman Groom at New York. The enclosed copy of a letter to him will more
fully explain it. A particular friend of mine here, applies to me for information, which I
must ask the favor of you to procure, and forward to me.

Writing news to others, much pressed in time, and making this letter one of private business,
I did not intend to have said any thing to you on political subjects. But I must press one
subject. Mr. Adams informs me he has borrowed money in Holland, which, if confirmed by Congress,
will enable them to pay, not only the interest due here to the foreign officers, but the principal.
Let me beseech you to reflect on the expediency of transferring this debt to Holland. All our
other debts in Europe do not injure our reputation so much as this. These gentlemen have connections
both in and out of office, and these again their connections, so that our default on this article
is further known, more blamed, and excites worse dispositions against us, than you can conceive.
If you think as I do, pray try to procure an order for paying off their capital. Mr. Adams
adds, that if any certain tax is provided for the payment of interest, Congress may borrow
enough in Holland to pay off their whole debts in France, both public and private, to the crown,
to the Farmers, and to Beaumarchais. Surely it will be better to transfer these debts to Holland.
So critical is the state of that country, that I imagine the monied men of it, would be glad
to place their money in foreign countries, and that Mr. Adams could borrow there for us, without
a certain tax for the interest, and saving our faith too, by previous explanations on that
subject. This country is really supposed on the eve of a * * * *. Such a spirit has risen within
a few weeks, as could not have been believed. They see the great deficit in their revenues,
and the hopes of economy lessen daily. The parliament refuse to register any act for a new
tax, and require an Assembly of the States. The object of this Assembly is evidently to give
law to the King, to fix a constitution, to limit expenses. These views are said to gain upon
the nation.*

*****

     [ * The parts of this letter marked by asterisks, are in
     cipher, and unintelligible.]

A final decision of some sort, should be made on Beaumarchais' affairs.

Paris, August 3, 1787,

Dear Sir,

I am now to acknowledge the receipt of your several favors of June the 29th, and July the 6th
and 8th.

I am of opinion that the affair of Geraud and Roland in Holland, had better be committed to
Mr. Dumas in Holland, as lawsuits must always be attended to by some person on the spot. For
the same reason, I think that of La Vayse and Puchilberg should be managed by the agent at
L'Orient, and Gruel's by the agent at Nantes. I shall always be ready to assist the agents
of L'Orient and Nantes, in any way in my power; but were the details to be left to me, they
would languish, necessarily, on account, of my distance from the place, and perhaps suffer
too, for want of verbal consultations with the lawyers entrusted with them. You are now with
Congress, and can take their orders on the subject. I shall therefore, do nothing in these
matters, in reliance that you will put them into such channel as they direct, furnishing the
necessary documents and explanations.

*****

With respect to French's affair, being perfectly satisfied myself, I have not ceased, nor shall
I 'cease, endeavoring to satisfy others, that your conduct has been that of an honest and honorable
debtor, and theirs the counterpart of Shylock in the play. I enclose you a letter containing
my testimony on your general conduct, which I have written to relieve a debt of justice pressing
on my mind, well knowing at the same time, you will not stand in need of it in America. Your
conduct is too well known to Congress, your character to all the world, to need any testimonials.

The moment I close my despatches for the packet, which will be the 9th instant, I shall with
great pleasure go to pay my respects to Mrs. Barclay at St. Germain, to satisfy her on the
subject of your transactions, and to assure her that my resources shall be hers, as long as
I have any. A multitude of letters to write, prevents my entering into the field of public
news, further than to observe, that it is extremely doubtful whether the affairs of Holland
will, or will not produce a war between France, on one side, and England and Prussia, on. the
other.

I beg you to accept assurances of the sincere esteem and respect, with which I have the honor
to be, Dear Sir, your friend

and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LXXVII.--TO E. CARRINGTON, August 4,1787

TO E. CARRINGTON.

Paris, August 4,1787.

Dear Sir,

Since mine of the 16th of January, I have been honored by your favors of April the 24th and
June the 9th. I am happy to find that the States have come so generally into the scheme of
the federal convention, from which, I am sure, we shall see wise propositions. I confess, I
do not go as far in the reforms thought necessary, as some of my correspondents in America;
but if the convention should adopt such propositions, I shall suppose them necessary. My general
plan would be, to make the States one as to every thing connected with foreign nations, and
several as to every thing purely domestic. But with all the imperfections of our present government,
it is, without comparison, the best existing, or that ever did exist. Its greatest defect is
the imperfect manner in which matters of commerce have been provided for. It has been so often
said, as to be generally believed, that Congress have no power by the Confederation to enforce
any thing; for example, contributions of money. It was not necessary to give them that power
expressly; they have it by the law of nature. When two parties make a compact, there results
to each a power of compelling the other to execute it. Compulsion was never so easy as in our
case, where a single frigate would soon levy on the commerce of any State the deficiency of
its contributions; nor more safe than in the hands of Congress, which has always shown that
it would wait, as it ought to do, to the last extremities, before it would execute any of its
powers which are disagreeable. I think it very material, to separate, in the hands of Congress,
the executive and legislative powers, as the judiciary already are, in some degree. This, I
hope, will be done. The want of it has been the source of more evil, than we have experienced
from any other cause. Nothing is so embarrassing nor so mischievous, in a great assembly, as
the details of execution. The smallest trifle of that kind, occupies as long as the most important
act of legislation, and takes place of every thing else. Let any man recollect, or look over,
the files of Congress: he will observe the most important propositions hanging over, from week
to week, and month to month, till the occasions have passed them, and the things never done.
I have ever viewed the executive details as the greatest cause of evil to us, because they
in fact place us as if we had no federal head, by diverting the attention of that head from
great to small objects; and should this division of power not be recommended by the convention,
it is my opinion, Congress should make it, itself, by establishing an executive committee.

Paris, August 4, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I am favored with your letter of May the 2nd, and most cordially sympathize in your late immense
losses. It is a situation in which a man needs the aid of all his wisdom and philosophy. But
as it is better to turn from the contemplation of our misfortunes, to the resources we possess
for extricating ourselves, you will, of course, have found solace in your vigor of mind, health
of body, talents, habits of business, in the consideration that you have time yet to retrieve
every thing, and a knowledge that the very activity necessary for this, is a state of greater
happiness than the unoccupied one, to which you had a thought of retiring. I wish the bulk
of my extravagant countrymen had as good prospects and resources as you. But with many of them,
a feebleness of mind makes them afraid to probe the true state of their affairs, and procrastinate
the reformation which alone can save something, to those who may yet be saved. How happy a
people were we during the war, from the single circumstance that we could not run in debt!
This counteracted all the inconveniences we felt, as the present facility of ruining ourselves
overweighs all the blessings of peace. I know no condition happier than that of a Virginia
farmer might be, conducting himself as he did during the war. His estate supplies a good table,
clothes itself and his family with their ordinary apparel, furnishes a small surplus to buy
salt, sugar, coffee, and a little finery for his wife and daughters, enables him to receive
and to visit his friends, and furnishes him pleasing and healthy occupation. To secure all
this, he needs but one act of self-denial, to put off buying any thing till he has the money
to pay for it. Mr. Ammonett did not come. He wrote to me, however, and I am making inquiry
for the town and family he indicated. As yet, neither can be heard of, and were they to be
found, the length of time would probably bar all claims against them. I have seen no object
present so many desperate faces. However, if inquiry can lighten our way, that shall not be
wanting, and I will write to him as soon as we discover any thing, or despair of discovering.
Littlepage has succeeded well in Poland. He has some office, it is said, worth five hundred
guineas a year. The box of seeds you were so kind as to forward me, came safe to hand. The
arrival of my daughter, in good health, has been a source of immense comfort to me. The injury
of which you had heard, was a dislocated wrist, and though it happened eleven months ago, was
a simple dislocation, and immediately aided by the best surgeon in Paris, it is neither well,
nor ever will be, so as to render me much service. The fingers remain swelled and crooked,
the hand withered, and the joint having a very confined motion. You ask me when I shall return.
My commission expires next spring, and if not renewed, I shall return then. If renewed, I shall
stay somewhat longer: how much, will not depend on me altogether. So far as it does, I cannot
fix the epoch of my return, though I always flatter myself it is not very distant. My habits
are formed to those of my own country. I am past the time of changing them, and am, therefore,
less happy any where else than there.

Paris, August 4, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I have to acknowledge the receipt of your favors of March the 8th and June the 9th, and to
give you many thanks for the trouble you have taken with the dionæa muscipula. I have not yet
heard any thing of them, which makes me fear they have perished by the way. I believe the most
effectual means of conveying them hither will be by the seed. I must add my thanks too for
the vocabularies. This is an object I mean to pursue, as I am persuaded that the only method
of investigating the filiation of the Indian nations, is by that of their languages.

I look up with you to the federal convention, for an amendment of our federal affairs; yet
I do not view them in so disadvantageous a light at present, as some do. And above all things,
I am astonished at some people's considering a kingly government as a refuge. Advise such to
read the fable of the frogs, who solicited Jupiter for a king. If that does not put them to
rights, send them to Europe, to see something of the trappings of monarchy, and I will undertake,
that every man shall go back thoroughly cured. If all the evils which can arise among us, from
the republican form of our government, from this day to the day of judgment, could be put into
a scale against what this country suffers from its monarchical form, in a week, or England,
in a month, the latter would preponderate. Consider the contents of the Red Book in England,
or the Almanac Royale of France, and say what a people gain by monarchy. The best they can
do is, to leave things to their ministers; and what are their ministers, but a committee, badly
chosen? If the king ever meddles, it is to do harm.

Paris, August 5, 1787.

Dear Sir,

A journey of between three and four months, into the southern parts of France and northern
of Italy, has prevented my writing to you. In the mean time, you have changed your ground,
and engaged in different occupations, so that I know not whether the news of this side the
water will even amuse you. However, it is all I have for you. The storm which seemed to be
raised suddenly in Brabant, will probably blow over. The Emperor, on his return to Vienna,
pretended to revoke all the concessions which had been made by his Governors General, to his
Brabantine subjects; but he, at the same time, called for deputies from among them to consult
with. He will use their agency to draw himself out of the scrape, and all there I think will
be quieted. Hostilities go on occasionally in Holland. France espouses the cause of the Patriots,
as you know, and England and Prussia that of the Stadtholder. France and England are both unwilling
to bring on a war, but a hasty move of the King of Prussia will perplex them. He has thought
the stopping his sister sufficient cause for sacrificing a hundred or two thousand of his subjects,
and as many Hollanders and French. He has therefore ordered twenty thousand men to march, without
consulting England, or even his own ministers. He may thus drag England into a war, and of
course this country, against their will. But it is certain they will do every thing they can,
to prevent it; and that in this, at least, they agree.

Though such a war might be gainful to us, yet it is much to be deprecated by us at this time.
In all probability, France would be unequal to such a war by sea and by land, and it is not
our interest or even safe for us, that she should be weakened. The great improvements in their
constitution, effected by the Assemblée des Notables, you are apprized of. That of partitioning
the country into a number of subordinate governments, under the administration of Provincial
Assemblies, chosen by the people, is a capital one. But to the delirium of joy which these
improvements gave the nation, a strange reverse of temper has suddenly succeeded. The deficiencies
of their revenue were exposed, and they were frightful. Yet there was an appearance of intention
to economize and reduce the expenses of government. But expenses are still very, inconsiderately
incurred, and all reformation in that point despaired of. The public credit is affected; and
such a spirit of discontent has arisen, as has never been seen. The parliament refused to register
the edict for a stamp tax, or any other tax, and call for the States General, who alone, they
say, can impose a new tax. They speak with a boldness unexampled. The King has called them
to Versailles to-morrow, where he will hold a lit de justice and compel them to register the
tax. How the chapter will finish, we must wait to see. By a vessel lately sailed from Havre
to New York, I have sent you some more livraisons of the Encyclopédie, down to the 22nd inclusive.
They were in a box with Dr. Currie's, and addressed to Mr. Madison, who will forward them to
Richmond. I have heard you are in the Assembly. I will beg the favor of you, therefore, to
give me, at the close of the session, a history of the most remarkable acts passed, the parties
and views of the House, &c. This, with the small news of my country, crops and prices, furnish
you abundant matter to treat me, while I have nothing to give you in return, but the history
of the follies of nations in their dotage.

Paris, August 6,1787.

The last letter I had the honor of addressing you was dated June the 21st. I have now that
of enclosing you a letter from the Swedish ambassador, praying that inquiry may be made for
a vessel of his nation, piratically carried off, and measures taken relative to the vessel,
cargo, and crew. Also a letter from William Russell and others, citizens of America, concerned
in trade to the island of Guadaloupe, addressed to the Marechal de Castries, and complaining
of the shutting to them the port of Point a Pitre, and receiving them only at Basse-terre.
This was enclosed to me by the subscribers, to be delivered to the Marechal de Castries. But
the present is not the moment to move in that business: and moreover, I suppose, that whenever
parties are within the reach of Congress, they should apply to them, and my instructions come
through that channel. Matters, arising within the kingdom of France, to which my commission
is limited, and not admitting time to take the orders of Congress, I suppose I may move in
originally. I also enclose you the copy of a letter from Mr. Barclay, closing his proceedings
in our affairs with Morocco. Before this reaches you, he will have had the honor of presenting
himself to you in person. After his departure, the parliament of Bordeaux decided that he was
liable to arrest. This was done on a letter from the minister, informing them that Mr. Barclay
was invested with no character which privileged him from arrest. His constant character of
consul was no protection, and they did not explain whether his character to Morocco was not
originally diplomatic, or was expired. Mr. Barclay's proceedings under this commission being
now closed, it would be incumbent on me to declare with respect to them, as well as his consular
transactions, my opinion of the judgment, zeal, and disinterestedness with which he has conducted
himself; were it not that Congress has been so possessed of those transactions from time to
time, as to judge for themselves. I cannot but be uneasy, lest my delay of entering on the
subject of the consular convention, may be disapproved. My hope was and is, that more practicable
terms might be obtained: in this hope, I do nothing till further orders, observing by an extract
from the journals you were pleased to send me, that Congress have referred the matter to your
consideration, and conscious that we are not suffering in the mean time, as we have not a single
consul in France, since the departure of Mr. Barclay. I mentioned to you in my last, the revival
of the hopes of the Chevalier de la Luzerne. I thought it my duty to remind the Count de Montmorin,
the other day, of the long absence of their minister from Congress. He told me, the Chevalier
de la Luzerne would not be sent back, but that we might rely, that in the month of October
a person would be sent, with whom we should be content. He did not name the person, though
there is no doubt that it is the Count de Mourtier. It is an appointment, which, according
to the opinion I have formed of him, bids as fair to give content, as any one which could be made.

I also mentioned in my last letter, that I had proposed the reducing the substance of Monsieur
de Calonne's letter into the form of an Arrêt, with some alterations, which, on consultation
with the merchants at the different ports I visited, I had found to be necessary. I received
soon after a letter from the Comptroller General, informing me, that the letter of Monsieur
de Calonne was in a course of execution. Of this, I enclose you a copy. I was, in that moment,
enclosing to him my general observations on that letter, a copy of which is also enclosed.
In these I stated all the alterations I wished to have made. It became expedient soon after,
to bring on the article of tobacco; first, to know whether the Farmers had executed the order
of Bernis, and also to prepare some arrangements to succeed the expiration of this order. So
that I am now pursuing the whole subject of our commerce, 1. to have necessary amendments made
in Monsieur de Calonne's letter; 2. to put it into a more stable form; 3. to have full execution
of the order of Bernis; 4. to provide arrangements for the article of tobacco, after that order
shall be expired. By the copy of my letter on the two last points, you will perceive that I
again press the abolition of the Farm of this article. The conferences on that subject give
no hope of effecting that. Some poor palliative is probably all we shall obtain. The Marquis
de la Fayette goes hand in hand with me in all these transactions, and is an invaluable auxiliary
to me. I hope it will not be imputed either to partiality or affectation, my naming this gentleman
so often in my despatches. Were I not to do it, it would be a suppression of truth, and the
taking to myself the whole merit where he has the greatest share.

The Emperor, on his return to Vienna, disavowed the concessions of his Governors General to
his subjects of Brabant. He at the same time proposed their sending deputies to him, to consult
on their affairs. They refused in the first moment; but afterwards nominated deputies; without
giving them any power, however, to concede any thing. In the mean time, they are arming and
training themselves. Probably the Emperor will avail himself of the aid of these deputies,
to tread back his steps. He will be the more prompt to do this, that he may be in readiness
to act freely, if he finds occasion, in the new scenes preparing in Holland. What these will
be, cannot be foreseen. You well know, that the original party-divisions of that country were
into Stadtholderians, Aristocrats, and Democrats. There was a subdivision of the Aristocrats,
into violent and moderate, which was important. The violent Aristocrats would have wished to
preserve all the powers of government in the hands of the Regents, and that these should remain
self-elective: but choosing to receive a modification of these powers from the Stadtholder,
rather than from the people, they threw themselves into his scale. The moderate Aristocrats
would have consented to a temperate mixture of democracy, and particularly, that the Regents
should be elected by the people. They were the declared enemies of the Stadtholder, and acted
in concert with the Democrats, forming with them what was called the Patriots. It is the opinion
of dispassionate people on the spot, that their views might have been effected. But the democratic
party aimed at more. They talked of establishing tribunes of the people, of annual accounts,
of depriving the magistrates at the will of the people, &c.; of enforcing all this with the
arms in the hands of the corps francs; and in some places, as at Heusden, Sprang, &c. began
the execution of these projects. The moderate Aristocrats found it difficult to strain their
principles to this pitch. A schism took place between them and the Democrats, and the former
have for some time been dropping off from the latter into the scale of the Stadtholder. This
is the fatal coalition which governs without obstacle in Zealand, Friesland, and Guelderland,
which constitutes the States of Utrecht, at Amersfort, and, with their aid, the plurality in
the States General. The States of Holland, Groningen, and Overyssel, vote as yet in the opposition.
But the coalition gains ground in the States of Holland, and has been prevalent in the Council
of Amsterdam. If its progress be not stopped by a little moderation in the Democrats, it will
turn the scale decidedly in favor of the Stadtholder, in the event of their being left to themselves
without foreign interference. If foreign powers interfere, their prospect does not brighten.
I see no sure friends to the Patriots but France, while Prussia and England are their assured
enemies. Nor is it probable, that characters so greedy, so enterprising, as the Emperor and
Empress, will be idle during such a struggle. Their views have long shown which side they would
take. That France has engaged to interfere, and to support the Patriots, is beyond doubt. This
engagement was entered into during the life of the late King of Prussia, whose eye was principally
directed on the Emperor, and whose dispositions towards the Prince of Orange would have permitted
him to be clipped a little close. But the present King comes in with warmer dispositions towards
the Princess his sister. He has shown decidedly, that he will support her, even to the destruction
of the balance of Europe, and the disturbance of its peace. The King of England has equally
decided to support that house, at the risk of plunging his nation into another war. He supplies
the Prince with money at this moment. A particular remittance of one hundred and twenty thousand
guineas is known of. But his ministry is divided. Pitt is against the King's opinion, the Duke
of Richmond and the rest of the ministers for it. Or, at least, such is the belief here. Mr.
Adams will have informed you more certainly. This division in the English ministry, with the
ill condition of their finances for war, produces a disposition even in the King, to try first
every pacific measure: and that country and this were laboring jointly to stop the course of
hostilities in Holland, to endeavor to effect an accommodation, and were scarcely executing
at all the armaments ordered in their ports; when all of a sudden an inflammatory letter, written
by the Princess of Orange to the King of Prussia, induces him, without consulting England,
without consulting even his own Council, to issue orders by himself to his generals, to march
twenty thousand men to revenge the insult supposed to be offered to his sister. With a pride
and egotism planted in the heart of every King, he considers her being stopped in the road,
as a sufficient cause to sacrifice a hundred or two thousand of his own subjects, and as many
of his enemies, and to spread fire, sword, and desolation over the half of Europe. This hasty
measure has embarrassed England, undesirous of war, if it can be avoided, yet unwilling to
separate from the power who is to render its success probable. Still you may be assured, that
that court is going on in concurrence with this, to prevent extremities, if possible; always
understood, that if the war cannot be prevented, they will enter into it as parties, and in
opposition to one another. This event is, in my opinion, to be deprecated by the friends of
France. She never was equal to such a war by land, and such a one by sea; and less so now,
than in any moment of the present reign. You remember that the nation was in a delirium of
joy on the convocation of the Notables, and on the various reformations agreed on between them
and the government. The picture of the distress of their finances was indeed frightful, but
the intentions to reduce them to order seemed serious. The constitutional reformations have
gone on well, but those of expenses make little progress. Some of the most obviously useless
have indeed been lopped off, but the remainder is a heavy mass, difficult to be reduced. Despair
has seized every mind, and they have passed from an extreme of joy to one of discontent. The
parliament, therefore, oppose the registering any new tax, and insist on an Assembly of the
States General. The object of this is to limit expenses, and dictate a constitution. The edict
for the stamp tax has been the subject of reiterated orders and refusals to register. At length,
the King has summoned the parliament to Versailles to hold a bed of justice, in which he will
order them, in person, to register the edict. At the moment of my writing, they are gone to
Versailles for this purpose. There will yet remain to them, to protest against the register,
as forced, and to issue orders against its execution on pain of death. But as the King would
have no peaceable mode of opposition left, it remains to be seen, whether they will push the
matter to this extremity. It is evident, I think, that the spirit of this country is advancing
towards a revolution in their constitution. There are not wanting persons at the helm, friends
to the progress of this spirit. The Provincial Assemblies will be the most probable instrument
of effecting it.

Since writing thus far, I have received an intimation, that it will be agreeable not to press
our commercial regulations at this moment, the ministry being too much occupied with the difficulties
surrounding them, to spare a moment on any subject which will admit of delay. Our business
must, therefore, be suspended for a while. To press it out of season, would be to defeat, it.
It would be felt as a vital benefit here, could we relieve their finances, by paying what we
owe. Congress will judge by Mr. Adams's letters, how far the transferring all our debts in
this country to Holland is practicable. On the replenishing their treasury with our principal
and interest, I should not be afraid to ask concessions in favor of our West India trade. It
would produce a great change of opinion as to us and our affairs. In the Assemblée des Notables,
hard things were said of us. They were induced, however, in committing us to writing, to smother
their ideas a little. In their votes, now gone to be printed, our debt is described in these
words. The twenty-first article of the account, formed of the interest of the claims of his
Majesty on the United States of America, cannot be drawn out for the present, except as a document.
The recovery of these claims, as well principal as perhaps even interest, although they appear
to rest on the most solid security, may, nevertheless, be long delayed, and should not, consequently,
be taken into account in estimating the annual revenue. This article amounts to one million
and six hundred thousand livres.' Above all things, it is desirable to hush the foreign officers
by payment. Their wants, the nature of their services, their access to high characters, and
connections with them, bespeak the reasons for this. I hear also that Mr. Beaumarchais means
to make himself heard, if a memorial which he sends by an agent in the present packet is not
attended to, as he thinks it ought to be. He called on me with it, and desired me to recommend
his case to a decision, and to note in my despatch, that it was the first time he had spoken
to me on the subject. This is true, it being the first time I ever saw him; but my recommendations
would be as displaced as unnecessary. I assured him Congress would do in that business what
justice should require, and their means enable them. The information sent me by Mr. Montgomery
from Alicant, of the death of the Dey of Algiers, was not true. I had expressed my doubt of
it in my last, when I communicated it. I send herewith the newspapers to this date, and a remonstrance
of the parliament, to show you in what language the King can be addressed at this day. I have
received no journal of Congress since the beginning of November last, and will thank you for
them, if printed.

P. S. August 7. The parliament were received yesterday very harshly by the King. He obliged
them to register the two edicts for the impôt territorial and stamp tax. When speaking in my
letter of the reiterated orders and refusals to register, which passed between the King and
parliament, I omitted to insert the King's answer to a deputation of parliament, which attended
him at Versailles. It may serve to show the spirit which exists between them. It was in these
words, and these only:--'Je vous ferai savoir mes intentions. Allez-vous-en. Qu'on ferme la porte.'

LETTER LXXXII.--TO JOHN CHURCHMAN, August 8, 1787

TO JOHN CHURCHMAN.

Paris, August 8, 1787.

Sir,

I have duly received your favor of June the 6th, and immediately communicated its contents
to a member of the Academy. He told me that they had received the other copy of your memorial,
which you mention to have sent through another channel; that your ideas were not conveyed so
explicitly, as to enable them to decide finally on their merit, but that they had made an entry
in their journals, to preserve to you the claim of the original idea. As far as we can conjecture
it here, we imagine you make a table of variations of the needle, for all the different meridians
whatever. To apply this table to use in the voyage between America and Europe, suppose the
variation to increase a degree in every one hundred and sixty miles. Two difficulties occur;
1. a ready and accurate method of finding the variation of the place; 2. an instrument so perfect,
as that (though the degree on it shall represent one hundred and sixty miles) it shall give
the parts of the degree so minutely, as to answer the purpose of the navigator. The variation
of the needle at Paris, actually, is 21° west. I make no question you have provided against
the doubts entertained here, and I shall be happy that our country may have the honor of furnishing
the old world, what it has so long sought in vain.

I am with much respect, Sir, your most obedient, humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LXXXIII.--TO MONSIEUR L HOMMANDE, August 9, 1787

TO MONSIEUR L HOMMANDE.

Paris, August 9, 1787.

Sir,

At the time you honored me with your letter of May the 31st, I was not returned from a journey
I had taken into Italy. This circumstance, with the mass of business which had accumulated
during my absence, must apologize for the delay of my answer. Every discovery, which multiplies
the subsistence of man, must be a matter of joy to every friend to humanity. As such, I learn
with great satisfaction, that you have found the means of preserving flour more perfectly than
has been done hitherto. But I am not authorized to avail my country of it, by making any offer
for its communication. Their policy is to leave their citizens free, neither restraining nor
aiding them in their pursuits. Though the interposition of government in matters of invention
has its use, yet it is in practice so inseparable from abuse, that they think it better not
to meddle with it. We are only to hope, therefore, that those governments, who are in the habit
of directing all the actions of their subjects by particular law, may be so far sensible of
the duty they are under of cultivating useful discoveries, as to reward you amply for yours,
which is among the most interesting to humanity.

I have the honor to be, with great consideration and respect, Sir, your most obedient and most
humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LXXXIV.--TO PETER CARR, August 10, 1787

TO PETER CARR.

Paris, August 10, 1787.

Dear Peter,

I have received your two letters of December the 30th and April the 18th, and am very happy
to find by them, as well as by letters from Mr. Wythe, that you have been so fortunate as to
attract his notice and good will: I am sure you will find this to have been one of the most
fortunate events of your life, as I have ever been sensible it was of mine. I enclose you a
sketch of the sciences to which I would wish you to apply, in such order as Mr. Wythe shall
advise: I mention also the books in them worth your reading, which submit to his correction.
Many of these are among your father's books, which you should have brought to you. As I do
not recollect those of them not in his library, you must write to me for them, making out a
catalogue of such as you think you shall have occasion for in eighteen months from the date
of your letter, and consulting Mr. Wythe on the subject. To this sketch I will add a few particular
observations.

1. Italian. I fear the learning this language will confound your French and Spanish. Being
all of them degenerated dialects of the Latin, they are apt to mix in conversation. I have
never seen a person speaking the three languages, who did not mix them. It is a delightful
language, but late events having rendered the Spanish more useful, lay it aside to prosecute that.

2. Spanish. Bestow great attention on this, and endeavor to acquire an accurate knowledge of
it. Our future connections with Spain and Spanish America, will render that language a valuable
acquisition. The ancient history of a great part of America, too, is written in that language.
I send you a dictionary.

3. Moral Philosophy. I think it lost time to attend lectures on this branch. He who made us
would have been a pitiful bungler, if he had made the rules of our moral conduct a matter of
science. For one man of science, there are thousands who are not. What would have become of
them? Man was destined for society. His morality, therefore, was to be formed to this object.
He was endowed with a sense of right and wrong, merely relative to this. This sense is as much
a part of his nature, as the sense of hearing, seeing, feeling; it is the true foundation of
morality, and not the [Greek: no alon]

truth, &c, as fanciful writers have imagined. The moral sense, or conscience, is as much a
part of man, as his leg or arm. It is given to all human beings, in a stronger or weaker degree,
as force of members is given them in a greater or less degree. It may be strengthened by exercise,
as may any particular limb of the body. This sense is submitted, indeed, in some degree, to
the guidance of reason; but it is a small stock which is required for this: even a less one
than what we call common sense. State a moral case to a ploughman and a professor. The former
will decide it as well, and often better than the latter, because he has not been led astray
by artificial rules. In this branch, therefore, read good books, because they will encourage,
as well as direct your feelings. The writings of Sterne, particularly, form the best course
of morality that ever was written. Besides these, read the books mentioned in the enclosed
paper: and, above all things, lose no occasion of exercising your dispositions to be grateful,
to be generous, to be charitable, to be humane, to be true, just, firm, orderly, courageous,
&c. Consider every act of this kind, as an exercise which will strengthen your moral faculties,
and increase your worth.

4. Religion, Your reason is now mature enough to examine this object. In the first place, divest
yourself of all bias in favor of novelty and singularity of opinion. Indulge them in any other
subject rather than that of religion. It is too important, and the consequences of error may
be too serious. On the other hand, shake off all the fears and servile prejudices, under which
weak minds are servilely crouched. Fix reason firmly in her seat, and call to her tribunal
every fact, every opinion. Question with boldness even the existence of a God; because, if
there be one, he must more approve the homage of reason, than that of blindfolded fear. You
will naturally examine, first, the religion of your own country. Read the Bible, then, as you
would read Livy or Tacitus. The facts which are within the ordinary course of nature, you will
believe on the authority of the writer, as you do those of the same kind in Livy and Tacitus.
The testimony of the writer weighs in their favor, in one scale, and their not being against
the laws of nature, does not weigh against them. But those facts in the Bible, which contradict
the laws of nature, must be examined with more care, and under a variety of faces. Here you
must recur to the pretensions of the writer to inspiration from God. Examine upon what evidence
his pretensions are founded, and whether that evidence is so strong, as that its falsehood
would be more improbable than a change of the laws of nature, in the case he relates. For example,
in the book of Joshua we are told the sun stood still several hours. Were we to read that fact
in Livy or Tacitus, we should class it with their showers of blood, speaking of statues, beasts,
&c. But it is said, that the writer of that book was inspired. Examine, therefore, candidly,
what evidence there is of his having been inspired. The pretension is entitled to your inquiry,
because millions believe it. On the other hand, you are astronomer enough to know, how contrary
it is to the law of nature, that a body revolving on its axis, as the earth does, should have
stopped, should not, by that sudden stoppage, have prostrated animals, trees, buildings, and
should after a certain time have resumed its revolution, and that without a second general
prostration. Is this arrest of the earth's motion, or the evidence which affirms it, most within
the law of probabilities? You will next read the New Testament. It is the history of a personage
called Jesus. Keep in your eye the opposite pretensions, 1. of those who say he was begotten
by God, born of a virgin, suspended, and reversed the laws of nature at will, and ascended
bodily into heaven: and, 2. of those who say he was a man, of illegitimate birth, of a benevolent
heart, enthusiastic mind, who set out without pretensions to divinity, ended in believing them,
and was punished capitally for sedition, by being gibbeted, according to the Roman law, which
punished the first commission of that offence by whipping, and the second by exile or death
in furca. See this law in the Digest, Lib. 48, tit. 19, § 28. 3. and Lipsius, Lib. 2. De Cruce,
cap. 2. These questions are examined in the books I have mentioned, under the head of Religion,
and several others. They will assist you in your inquiries; but keep your reason firmly on
the watch in reading them all. Do not be frightened from this inquiry by any fear of its consequences.
If it ends in a belief that there is no God, you will find incitements to virtue in the comfort
and pleasantness you feel in its exercise, and the love of others which it will procure you.
If you find reason to believe there is a God, a consciousness that you are acting under his
eye, and that he approves you, will be a vast additional incitement: if that there be a future
state, the hope of a happy existence in that, increases the appetite to deserve it: if that
Jesus was also a God, you will be comforted by a belief of his aid and love. In fine, I repeat,
you must lay aside all prejudice on both sides, and neither believe nor reject any thing, because
any other person, or description of persons, have rejected or believed it. Your own reason
is the only oracle given you by Heaven, and you are answerable not for the rightness, but uprightness
of the decision. I forgot to observe, when speaking of the New Testament, that you should read
all the histories of Christ, as well of those whom a council of ecclesiastics have decided
for us to be Pseudo-evangelists, as those they named Evangelists. Because these Pseudo-evangelists
pretended to inspiration as much as the others, and you are to judge their pretensions by your
own reason, and not by the reason of those ecclesiastics. Most of these are lost. There are
some, however, still extant, collected by Fabricius, which I will endeavor to get and send you.

5. Travelling. This makes men wiser, but less happy. When men of sober age travel, they gather
knowledge, which they may apply usefully for their country; but they are subject ever after
to recollections mixed with regret; their affections are weakened by being extended over more
objects; and they learn new habits, which cannot be gratified when they return home. Young
men who travel are exposed to all these inconveniences in a higher degree, to others still
more serious, and do not acquire that wisdom for which a previous foundation is requisite,
by repeated and just observations at home. The glare of pomp and pleasure is analogous to the
motion of the blood; it absorbs all their affection and attention; they are torn from it as
from the only good in this world, and return to their home as to a place of exile and condemnation.
Their eyes are for ever turned back to the object they have lost, and its recollection poisons
the residue of their lives. Their first and most delicate passions are hackneyed on unworthy
objects here, and they carry home the dregs, insufficient to make themselves or any body else
happy. Add to this, that a habit of idleness, an inability to apply themselves to business
is acquired, and renders them useless to themselves and their country. These observations are
founded in experience. There is no place where your pursuit of knowledge will be so little
obstructed by foreign objects, as in your own country, nor any wherein the virtues of the heart
will be less exposed to be weakened. Be good, be learned, and be industrious, and you will
not want the aid of travelling, to render you precious to your country, dear to your friends,
happy within yourself. I repeat my advice, to take a great deal of exercise, and on foot. Health
is the first requisite after morality. Write to me often, and be assured of the interest I
take in your success, as well as the warmth of those sentiments of attachment with which I
am, Dear Peter, your affectionate friend,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LXXXV.--TO DR. GILMER, August 11, 1787

TO DR. GILMER.

Paris, August 11, 1787.

Dear Doctor,

Your letter of January the 9th, 1787, came safely to hand in the month of June last. Unluckily
you forgot to sign it, and your hand-writing is so Protean, that one cannot be sure it is yours.
To increase the causes of incertitude, it was dated Pen-Park, a name which I only know, as
the seat of John Harmer. The hand-writing, too, being somewhat in his style, made me ascribe
it hastily to him, indorse it with his name, and let it lie in my bundle to be answered at
leisure. That moment of leisure arriving, I sat down to answer it to John Harmer, and now,
for the first time, discover marks of its being yours, and particularly those expressions of
friendship to myself and family, which you have ever been so good as to entertain, and which
are to me among the most precious possessions. I wish my sense of this, and my desires of seeing
you rich and happy, may not prevent my seeing any difficulty in the case you state of George
Harmer's wills; which, as you state them, are thus.

1. A will, dated December the 26th, 1779, written in his own hand, and devising to his brother
the estates he had received from him.

2. Another will, dated June the 25th, 1782, written also in his own hand, devising his estate
to trustees, to be conveyed to such of his relations, I. H., I. L., or H. L., as should become
capable of acquiring property, or, on failure of that, to be sold, and the money remitted them.

3. A third will, dated September the 12th, 1786, devising all his estate at Marrowbone, and
his tracts at Horse-pasture and Poison-field to you; which will is admitted to record, and
of course has been duly executed.

You say the learned are divided on these wills. Yet I see no cause of division, as it requires
little learning to decide, that 'the first deed and last will must always prevail.' I am afraid,
therefore, the difficulty may arise on the want of words of inheritance in the devise to you:
for you state it as a devise to 'George Gilmer'(without adding 'and to his heirs') of 'all
the estate called Marrowbone,' 'the tract called Horse-pasture,' and 'the tract called Poison-field.'
If the question is on this point, and you have copied the words of the will exactly, I suppose
you take an estate in fee simple in Marrowbone, and for life only in Horse-pasture and Poison-field;
the want of words of inheritance in the two last cases, being supplied as to the first, by
the word 'estate,' which has been repeatedly decided to be descriptive of the quantum of interest
devised, as well as of its locality. I am in hopes, however, you have not copied the words
exactly, that there are words of inheritance to all the devises, as the testator certainly
knew their necessity, and that the conflict only will be between the different wills, in which
case, I see nothing which can be opposed to the last. I shall be very happy to eat at Pen-park
some of the good mutton and beef of Marrowbone, Horse-pasture, and Poison-field, with yourself
and Mrs. Gilmer, and my good old neighbors. I am as happy no where else, and in no other society,
and all my wishes end, where I hope my days will end, at Monticello. Too many scenes of happiness
mingle themselves with all the recollections of my native woods and fields, to suffer them
to be supplanted in my affection by any other. I consider myself here as a traveller only,
and not a resident. My commission expires next spring, and if not renewed, I shall of course
return then. If renewed, I shall remain here some time longer. How much, I cannot say; yet
my wishes shorten the period. Among the strongest inducements, will be that of your society
and Mrs. Gilmer's, which I am glad to find brought more within reach, by your return to Pen-park.
My daughters are importunate to return also. Patsy enjoys good health, and is growing to my
stature. Maria arrived here about a month ago, after a favorable voyage, and in perfect health.
My own health has been as good as ever, after the first year's probation. If you knew how agreeable
to me are the details of the small news of my neighborhood, your charity would induce you to
write frequently. Your letters lodged in the post-office at Richmond (to be forwarded to New
York) come with certainty. We are doubtful yet, whether there will be war or not. Present me
with warm affection to Mrs. Gilmer, and be assured yourself of the unvarying sentiments of
esteem and attachment, with which I am, Dear Doctor, your sincere friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LXXXVI.--TO JOSEPH JONES, August 14, 1787

TO JOSEPH JONES.

Paris, August 14, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I have never yet thanked you, but with the heart, for the act of Assembly confirming the agreement
with Maryland, the pamphlet, and papers, I received from you a twelvemonth ago. Very soon after
their receipt, I got my right wrist dislocated, which prevented me long from writing, and as
soon as that was able to bear it, I took a long journey, from which I am but lately returned.
I am anxious to hear what our federal convention recommends, and what the States will do in
consequence of their recommendation. And yet I hear there are people among you, who think the
experience of our governments has already proved, that republican governments will not answer.
Send those gentry here, to count the blessings of monarchy. A king's sister, for instance,
stopped in the road, and on a hostile journey, is sufficient cause for him to march immediately
twenty thousand men to revenge this insult, when he had shown himself little moved by the matter
of right then in question.

*****

From all these broils we are happily free, and that God may keep us long so, and yourself in
health and happiness, is the prayer of,

Dear Sir, your most obedient

and most humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LXXXVII.--TO GENERAL WASHINGTON, August 14, 1787

TO GENERAL WASHINGTON.

Paris, August 14, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I was happy to find, by the letter of August the 1st, 1786, which you did me the honor to write
to me, that the modern dress for your statue, would meet your approbation. I found it strongly
the sentiment of West, Copely, Trumbull, and Brown, in London; after which it would be ridiculous
to add, that it was my own. I think a modern in an antique dress, as just an object of ridicule,
as a Hercules or Marius with a periwig and chapeau bras.

I remember having written to you, while Congress sat at Annapolis, on the water communication
between ours and the western country, and to have mentioned, particularly, the information
I had received of the plain face of the country between the sources of Big-beaver and Cayohoga,
which made me hope that a canal, of no great expense, might unite the navigation of Lake Erie
and the Ohio. You must since have had occasion of getting better information on this subject,
and if you have, you would oblige me by a communication of it. I consider this canal, if practicable,
as a very important work.

I remain in hopes of great and good effects from the decision of the Assembly over which you
are presiding. To make our States one as to all foreign concerns, preserve them several as
to all merely domestic, to give to the federal head some peaceable mode of enforcing its just
authority, to organize that head into legislative, executive, and judiciary departments, are
great desiderata in our federal constitution. Yet with all its defects, and with all those
of our particular governments, the inconveniences resulting from them are so light, in comparison
with those existing in every other government on earth, that our citizens may certainly be
considered as in the happiest political situation which exists.

The Assemblée des Notables has been productive of much good in this country. The reformation
of some of the most oppressive laws has taken place, and is taking place. The allotment of
the State into subordinate governments, the administration of which is committed to persons
chosen by the people, will work in time a very beneficial change in their constitution. The
expense of the trappings of monarchy, too, is lightening. Many of the useless officers, high
and low, of the King, Queen, and Princes, are struck off. Notwithstanding all this, the discovery
of the abominable abuses of public money by the late Comptroller General, some new expenses
of the court, not of a piece with the projects of reformation, and the imposition of new taxes,
have, in the course of a few weeks, raised a spirit of discontent in this nation, so great
and so general, as to threaten serious consequences. The parliaments in general, and particularly
that of Paris, put themselves at the head of this effervescence, and direct its object to the
calling the States General, who have not been assembled since 1614. The object is to fix a
constitution, and to limit expenses. The King has been obliged to hold a bed of justice, to
enforce the registering the new taxes: the parliament, on their side, propose to issue a prohibition
against their execution. Very possibly this may bring on their exile. The mild and patriotic
character of the new ministry is the principal dependence against this extremity.

The turn which the affairs of Europe will take, is not yet decided.

A war, wherein France, Holland, and England should be parties, seems, primâ facie, to promise
much advantage to us. But, in the first place, no war can be safe for us, which threatens France
with an unfavorable issue. And, in the next, it will probably embark us again into the ocean
of speculation, engage us to overtrade ourselves, convert us into sea-rovers, under French
and Dutch colors, divert us from agriculture, which is our wisest pursuit, because it will
in the end contribute most to real wealth, good morals, and happiness. The wealth acquired
by speculation and plunder, is fugacious in its nature, and fills society with the spirit of
gambling. The moderate and sure income of husbandry begets permanent improvement, quiet life,
and orderly conduct, both public and private. We have no occasion for more commerce than to
take off our superfluous produce, and the people complain that some restrictions prevent this;
yet the price of articles with us, in general, shows the contrary. Tobacco, indeed, is low,
not because we cannot carry it where we please, but because we make more than the consumption
requires. Upon the whole, I think peace advantageous to us, necessary for Europe, and desirable
for humanity. A few days will decide, probably, whether all these considerations are to give
way to the bad passions of Kings, and those who would be Kings.

P. S. August 15. The parliament is exiled to Troyes this morning. T. J.

LETTER LXXXVIII.--TO COLONEL HUMPHREYS, August 14, 1787

TO COLONEL HUMPHREYS.

Paris, August 14, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I remember when you left us, it was with a promise to supply all the defects of correspondence
in our friends, of which we complained, and which you had felt in common with us. Yet I have
received but one letter from you, which was dated June the 5th, 1786, and I answered it August
the 14th, 1786. Dropping that, however, and beginning a new account, I will observe to you,
that wonderful improvements are making here in various lines. In architecture, the wall of
circumvallation round Paris, and the palaces by which we are to be let out and in, are nearly
completed; four hospitals are to be built instead of the old hôtel-dieu; one of the old bridges
has all its houses demolished, and a second nearly so; a new bridge is begun at the Place Louis
XV.; the Palais Royal is gutted, a considerable part in the centre of the garden being dug
out, and a subterranean circus begun, wherein will be equestrian exhibitions, &c. In society,
the habit habille is almost banished, and they begin to go even to great suppers in frock:
the court and diplomatic corps, however, must always be excepted. They are too high to be reached
by any improvement. They are the last refuge from which etiquette, formality, and folly will
be driven. Take away these, and they would be on a level with other people.

     [After describing the unsettled state of Europe, as in some
     of the preceding letters, the writer proceeds.]

So much for the blessings of having Kings, and magistrates who would be Kings.

Sir,

Paris, August 15, 1787.

An American gentleman leaving Paris this afternoon, to go by the way of L'Orient to Boston,
furnishes me the rare occasion of a conveyance, other than the packet, sure and quick. My letter
by the packet informed you of the bed of justice, for enregistering the stamp tax and land
tax. The parliament, on their return came to an Arrêtée (a resolution) which, besides protesting
against the enregistering, as done by force, laid the foundation for an Arrêt de defence (an
act) against the execution of the two new laws. The question on the final Arrêt was adjourned
to the day before yesterday. It is believed they did not conclude on this Arrêt, as it has
not appeared. However, there was a concourse of about ten thousand people at the parliament
house, who, on their adjournment, received them with acclamations of joy, loosened the horses
of the most eminent speakers against the tax from their carriages, and drew them home. This
morning, the parliament is exiled to Troyes. It is believed to proceed, principally, from the
fear of a popular commotion here.

The officer charged by this court, to watch the English squadron, which was under sailing orders,
returned about a week ago with information that it had sailed, having shaped its course west-wardly.
This is another step towards war. It is the more suspicious, as their minister here denies
the fact. Count Adhemar is here from London, by leave from his court. The Duke of Dorset, the
British ambassador here, has lately gone to London on leave. Neither of these ambassadors has
the confidence of his court, on the point of abilities. The latter merits it for his honesty.
The minister of the British court, resident here, remains; but Mr. Eden, their ambassador to
Spain, under pretence of taking this in his route, is in truth their fac-totum in the present
emergency. Nothing worth noting has occurred since my last, either in the Dutch or Austrian
Netherlands.

Paris, August 30, 1787.

Dear Sir,

Since your favor of July the 10th, mine have been of July the 17th, 23rd, and 28th. The last
enclosed a bill of exchange from Mr. Grand, on Tessier, for £46. 17s. 10d. sterling, to answer
General Sullivan's bill for that sum. I hope it got safe to hand, though I have been anxious
about it, as it went by post, and my letters through that channel sometimes miscarry.

From the separation of the Notables to the present moment, has been perhaps the most interesting
interval ever known in this country. The propositions of the government, approved by the Notables,
were precious to the nation, and have been in an honest course of execution, some of them being
carried into effect, and others preparing. Above all, the establishment of the Provincial Assemblies,
some of which have begun their sessions, bid fair to be the instrument for circumscribing the
power of the crown, and raising the people into consideration. The election given to them,
is what will do this. Though the minister, who proposed these improvements, seems to have meant
them as the price of the new supplies, the game has been so played, as to secure the improvements
to the nation, without securing the price. The Notables spoke softly on the subject of the
additional supplies. But the parliament took them up roundly, refused to register the edicts
for the new taxes, till compelled in a bed of justice, and suffered themselves to be transferred
to Troyes, rather than withdraw their opposition. It is urged principally against the King,
that his revenue is one hundred and thirty millions more than that of his predecessor was,
and yet he demands one hundred and twenty millions further. You will see this well explained
in the 'Conference entre un Ministre d'etat et un Conseiller au parliament,' which I send you
with some small pamphlets. In the mean time, all tongues in Paris (and in France as it is said)
have been let loose, and never was a license of speaking against the government, exercised
in London more freely or more universally. Caricatures, placards, bons-mots, have been indulged
in by all ranks of people, and I know of no well attested instance of a single punishment.
For some time, mobs of ten, twenty, and thirty thousand people collected daily, surrounded
the Parliament house, huzzaed the members, even entered the doors and examined into their conduct,
took the horses out of the carriages of those who did well, and drew them home. The government
thought it prudent to prevent these, drew some regiments into the neighborhood, multiplied
the guards, had the streets constantly patrolled by strong parties, suspended privileged places,
forbade all clubs, &c. The mobs have ceased: perhaps this may be partly owing to the absence
of Parliament. The Count d'Artois, sent to hold a bed of justice in the Cour des Aides, was
hissed and hooted without reserve, by the populace; the carriage of Madame de (I forget the
name), in the Queen's livery, was stopped by the populace, under a belief that it was Madame
de Polignac, whom they would have insulted; the Queen, going to the theatre at Versailles with
Madame de Polignac, was received with a general hiss. The King, long in the habit of drowning
his cares in wine, plunges deeper and deeper. The Queen cries, but sins on. The Count d'Artois
is detested, and Monsieur, the general favorite. The Archbishop of Toulouse is made minister
principal, a virtuous, patriotic, and able character. The Marechal de Castries retired yesterday,
notwithstanding strong solicitations to remain in office. The Marechal de Segur retired at
the same time, prompted to it by the court. Their successors are not yet known. Monsieur de
St. Priest goes ambassador to Holland, in the room of Verac, transferred to Switzerland, and
the Count de Moustier goes to America, in the room of the Chevalier de la Luzerne, who has
a promise of the first vacancy. These nominations are not yet made formally, but they are decided
on, and the parties are ordered to prepare for their destination.

As it has been long since I have had a confidential conveyance to you, I have brought together
the principal facts from the adjournment of the Notables, to the present moment, which, as
you will perceive from their nature, required a confidential conveyance. I have done it the
rather, because, though you will have heard many of them, and seen them in the public papers,
yet, floating in the mass of lies which constitute the atmosphere of London and Paris, you
may not have been sure of their truth; and I have mentioned every truth of any consequence,
to enable you to stamp as false, the facts pretermitted. I think that in the course of three
months, the royal authority has lost, and the rights of the nation gained, as much ground by
a revolution of public opinion only, as England gained in all her civil wars under the Stuarts.
I rather believe, too, they will retain the ground gained, because it is defended by the young
and the middle-aged, in opposition to the old only. The first party increases, and the latter
diminishes daily, from the course of nature. You may suppose, that in this situation, war would
be unwelcome to France. She will surely avoid it, if not forced into it by the courts of London
and Berlin. If forced, it is probable she will change the system of Europe totally, by an alliance
with the two empires, to whom nothing would be more desirable. In the event of such a coalition,
not only Prussia, but the whole European world must receive from them their laws. But France
will probably endeavor to preserve the present system, if it can be done, by sacrificing, to
a certain degree, the pretensions of the patriotic party in Holland. But of all these matters,
you can judge, in your position, where less secrecy is observed, better than I can.

I have news from America as late as July the 19th. Nothing had transpired from the federal
convention. I am sorry they began their deliberations by so abominable a precedent, as that
of tying up the tongues of their members. Nothing can justify this example, but the innocence
of their intentions, and ignorance of the value of public discussions. I have no doubt that
all their other measures will be good and wise. It is really an assembly of demigods. General
Washington was of opinion, that they should not separate till October.

Paris, September 16,1787.

Dear Sir,

I am now to acknowledge the receipt of your favors of December the 13th and 22nd, 1786, and
of January, 1787. These should not have been so long unanswered, but that they arrived during
my absence on a journey of between three and four months, through the southern parts of France
and northern of Italy. In the latter country, my time allowed me to go no further than Turin,
Milan, and Genoa: consequently, I scarcely got into classical ground. I took with me some of
the writings, in which endeavors have been made to investigate the passage of Annibal over
the Alps, and was just able to satisfy myself, from a view of the country, that the descriptions
given of his march are not sufficiently particular, to enable us, at this day, even to guess
at his track across the Alps. In architecture, painting, sculpture, I found much amusement:
but more than all, in their agriculture, many objects of which might be adopted with us to
great advantage. I am persuaded, there are many parts of our lower country where the olive
tree might be raised, which is assuredly the richest gift of Heaven. I can scarcely except
bread. I see this tree supporting thousands among the Alps, where there is not soil enough
to make bread for a single family. The caper, too, might be cultivated with us. The fig we
do raise. I do not speak of the vine, because it is the parent of misery. Those who cultivate
it are always poor, and he who would employ himself with us in the culture of corn, cotton,
&c. can procure, in exchange for them, much more wine, and better, than he could raise by its
direct culture.

I sent you formerly copies of the documents on the Tagliaferro family, which I had received
from Mr. Febroni. I now send the originals. I have procured for you a copy of Polybius, the
best edition; but the best edition of Vitruvius which is with the commentaries of Ficinus,
is not to be got here. I have sent to Holland for it. In the mean time, the Polybius comes
in a box containing books for Peter Carr, and for some of my friends in Williamsburg and its
vicinities. I have taken the liberty of addressing the box to you. It goes to New York in the
packet-boat which carries this letter, and will be forwarded to you by water, by Mr. Madison.
Its freight to New York is paid here. The transportation from thence to Williamsburg, will
be demanded of you, and shall stand as the equivalent to the cost of Polybius and Vitruvius,
if you please. The difference either way, will not be worth the trouble of raising and transmitting
accounts. I send you herewith a state of the contents of the box, and for whom each article
is. Among these are some, as you will perceive, of which I ask your acceptance. It is a great
comfort to me, that while here, I am able to furnish some amusement to my friends, by sending
them such productions of genius, ancient and modern, as might otherwise escape them; and I
hope they will permit me to avail myself of the occasion, while it lasts.

This world is going all to war. I hope ours will remain clear of it. It is already declared
between the Turks and Russians, and considering the present situation of Holland, it cannot
fail to spread itself all over Europe. Perhaps it may not be till next spring, that the other
powers will be engaged in it: nor is it as yet clear, how they will arrange themselves. I think
it not impossible, that France and the two empires may join against all the rest. The Patriotic
party in Holland will be saved by this, and the Turks sacrificed. The only thing which can
prevent the union of France and the two empires, is the difficulty of agreeing about the partition
of the spoils. Constantinople is the key of Asia. Who shall have it, is the question. I cannot
help looking forward to the re-establishment of the Greeks as a people, and the language of
Homer becoming again a living language, as among possible events. You have now with you Mr.
Paradise, who can tell you how easily the modern may be improved into the ancient Greek.

You ask me in your letter, what ameliorations I think necessary in our federal constitution.
It is now too late to answer the question, and it would always have been presumption in me
to have done it. Your own ideas, and those of the great characters who were to be concerned
with you in these discussions, will give the law, as they ought to do, to us all. My own general
idea was, that the States should severally preserve their sovereignty in whatever concerns
themselves alone, and that whatever may concern another State, or any foreign nation, should
be made a part of the federal sovereignty: that the exercise of the federal sovereignty should
be divided among three several bodies, legislative, executive, and judiciary, as the State
sovereignties are: and that some peaceable means should be contrived, for the federal head
to force compliance on the part of the States. I have reflected on your idea of wooden or ivory
diagrams, for the geometrical demonstrations. I should think wood as good as ivory; and that
in this case, it might add to the improvement of the young gentlemen, that they should make
the figures themselves. Being furnished by a workman with a piece of vineer, no other tool
than a penknife and a wooden rule would be necessary. Perhaps pasteboards, or common cards,
might be still more convenient. The difficulty is, how to reconcile figures which must have
a very sensible breadth, to our ideas of a mathematical line, which, as it has neither breadth
nor thickness, will revolt more at these, than at simple lines drawn on paper or slate. If,
after reflecting on this proposition, you would prefer having them made here, lay your commands
on me, and they shall be executed.

I return you a thousand thanks for your goodness to my nephew. After my debt to you for whatever
I am myself, it is increasing it too much, to interest yourself for his future fortune. But
I know that to you, a consciousness of doing good is a luxury ineffable.

Sir,

Paris, September 19, 1787.

My last letters to you were of the 6th and 15th of August; since which, I have been honored
with yours of July the 24th, acknowledging the receipt of mine of the 14th and 23d of February.
I am anxious to hear you have received that also of May the 4th, written from Marseilles. According
to the desires of Congress, expressed in their vote confirming the appointments of Francisco
Giuseppa and Girolamo Chiappi, their agents in Morocco, I have written letters to these gentlemen,
to begin a correspondence with them. To the first, I have enclosed the ratification of the
treaty with the Emperor of Morocco, and shall send it either by our agent at Marseilles, who
is now here, or by the Count Daranda, who sets out for Madrid in a few days, having relinquished
his embassy here. I shall proceed on the redemption of our captives at Algiers, as soon as
the commissioners of the treasury shall enable me, by placing the money necessary under my
orders. The prisoners redeemed by the religious order of Mathurins, cost about four hundred
dollars each, and the General of the order told me, that they had never been able to redeem
foreigners on so good terms as their own countrymen. Supposing that their redemption, clothing,
feeding, and transportation should amount to five hundred dollars each, there must be, at least,
a sum of ten thousand dollars set apart for this purpose. Till this is done, I shall take no
other step than the preparatory one, of destroying at Algiers all idea of our intending to
redeem the prisoners. This, the General of the Mathurins told me, was indispensably necessary,
and that it must not, on any account, transpire, that the public would interest themselves
for their redemption. This was rendered the more necessary, by the declaration of the Dey to
the Spanish consul, that he should hold him responsible, at the Spanish price, for our prisoners,
even for such as should die. Three of them have died of the plague. By authorizing me to redeem
at the prices usually paid by the European nations, Congress, I suppose, could not mean the
Spanish price, which is not only unusual but unprecedented, and would make our vessels the
first object with those pirates. I shall pay no attention, therefore, to the Spanish price,
unless further instructed. Hard as it may seem, I should think it necessary, not to let it
be known even to the relations of the captives, that we mean to redeem them.

I have the honor to inclose you a paper from the admiralty of Guadaloupe, sent to me as a matter
of form, and to be lodged, I suppose, with our marine records. I enclose, also, a copy of a
letter from the Count de Florida Blanca to Mr. Carmichael, by which you will perceive, they
have referred the settlement of the claim of South Carolina for the use of their frigate, to
Mr. Gardoqui, and to the Delegates of South Carolina in Congress.

I had the honor to inform you in my last letter, of the parliament's being transferred to Troyes.
To put an end to the tumults in Paris, some regiments were brought nearer, the patroles were
strengthened and multiplied, some mutineers punished by imprisonment: it produced the desired
effect. It is confidently believed, however, that the parliament will be immediately recalled,
the stamp tax and land tax repealed, and other means devised of accommodating their receipts
and expenditures. Those supposed to be in contemplation, are, a rigorous levy of the old tax
of the deux vingtiemes, on the rich, who had, in a great measure, withdrawn their property
from it, as well as on the poor, on whom it had principally fallen. This will greatly increase
the receipts: while they are proceeding on the other hand, to reform their expenses far beyond
what they had promised. It is said these reformations will amount to eighty millions. Circumstances
render these measures more and more pressing. I mentioned to you in my last letter, that the
officer charged by the ministry to watch the motion of the British squadron, had returned with
information that it had sailed westwardly. The fact was not true. He had formed his conclusion
too hastily, and thus led the ministry into error. The King of Prussia, urged on by England,
has pressed more and more the affairs of Holland and lately has given to the States General
of Holland four days only to comply with his demand. This measure would, of itself, have rendered
it impossible for France to proceed longer in the line of accommodation with Prussia. In the
same moment, an event takes place, which seems to render all attempt at accommodation idle.
The Turks have declared war against the Russians, and that under circumstances which exclude
all prospect of preventing its taking place. The King of Prussia having deserted his ancient
friends, there remain only France and Turkey, perhaps Spain also, to oppose the two empires,
Prussia and England. By such a piece of Quixotism, France might plunge herself into ruin with
the Turks and Dutch, but would save neither. But there is certainly a confederacy secretly
in contemplation, of which the public have not yet the smallest suspicion; that is between
France and the two empires. I think it sure that Russia has desired this, and that the Emperor,
after some hesitation, has acceded. It rests on this country to close. Her indignation against
the King of Prussia will be some spur. She will thereby save her party in Holland, and only
abandon the Turks to that fate she cannot ward off, and which their precipitation has brought
on themselves, by the instigation of the English ambassador at the Porte, and against the remonstrances
of the French ambassador. Perhaps this formidable combination, should it take place, may prevent
the war of the western powers, as it would seem that neither England nor Prussia would carry
their false calculations so far, as, with the aid of the Turks only, to oppose themselves to
such a force. In that case, the Patriots of Holland would be peaceably established in the powers
of their government, and the war go on against the Turks only, who would probably be driven
from Europe. This new arrangement would be a total change of the European system, and a favorable
one for our friends. The probability of a general war, in which this country would be engaged
on one side, and England on the other, has appeared to me sufficient to justify my writing
to our agents in the different ports of France, to put our merchants on their guard, against
risking their property in French or English bottoms. The Emperor, instead of treading back
his steps in Brabant, as was expected, has pursued the less honorable plan of decoying his
subjects thence by false pretences, to let themselves be invested by his troops, and this done,
he dictates to them his own terms. Yet it is not certain the matter will end with that.

The Count De Moustier is nominated Minister Plenipotentiary to America; and a frigate is ordered
to Cherbourg, to carry him over. He will endeavor to sail by the middle of the next month,
but if any delay should make him pass over the whole of October, he will defer his voyage to
the spring, being unwilling to undertake a winter passage. Monsieur de St. Priest is sent ambassador
to Holland, in the room of Monsieur de Verac, appointed to Switzerland. The Chevalier de Luzerne
might, I believe,have gone to Holland, but he preferred a general promise of promotion, and
the possibility that it might be to the court of London. His prospects are very fair. His brother,
the Count de la Luzerne, (now Governor in the West Indies) is appointed minister of the marine,
in the place of Monsieur de Castries, who has resigned. The Archbishop of Toulouse is appointed
ministre principal, and his brother Monsieur de Brienne, minister of war, in the place of Monsieur
de Segur. The department of the Comptroller has had a very rapid succession of tenants. From
Monsieur de Calonne it passed to Monsieur de Forqueux, from him to Villedeuil, and from him
to Lambert, who holds it at present, but divided with a Monsieur Cabarrus (whom I believe you
knew in Spain), who is named Directeur du tresor royal, the office into which M. Necker came
at first. I had the honor to inform you, that before the departure of the Count de Luzerne
to his government in the West Indies, I had pressed on him the patronage of our trade with
the French islands; that he appeared well disposed, and assured me he would favor us as much
as his instructions, and the laws of the colonies, would permit. I am in hopes, these dispositions
will be strengthened by his residence in the islands, and that his acquaintance among the people
there will be an additional motive to favor them. Probably they will take advantage of his
appointment, to press indulgences in commerce with us. The ministry is of a liberal complexion,
and well disposed to us. The war may add to the motives for opening their islands to other
resources for their subsistence, and for doing what may be agreeable to us. It seems to me
at present, then, that the moment of the arrival of the Count de la Luzerne will be the moment
for trying to obtain a freer access to their islands. It would be very material to do this,
if possible, in a permanent way, that is to say, by treaty. But I know of nothing we have to
offer in equivalent. Perhaps the payment of our debt to them might be made use of as some inducement,
while they are so distressed for money. Yet the borrowing the money in Holland will be rendered
more difficult by the same event, in proportion as it will increase the demand for money by
other powers.

The gazettes of Ley den and France, to this date, are enclosed, together with some pamphlets
on the internal affairs of this country.

Paris, September 20, 1787.

Dear Sir,

Your favor of April the 28th did not come to my hands till the 1st instant. Unfortunately,
the boxes of plants, which were a day too late to come by the April packet, missed the packet
of June the 10th also, and only came by that of July the 25th. They are not yet arrived at
Paris, but I expect them daily. I am sensible of your kind attention to them, and that as you
were leaving New York, you took the course which bade fair to be the best. That they were forgotten
in the hands in which you placed them, was probably owing to much business, and more important.
I have desired Mr. Madison to refund to you the money, you were so kind as to advance for me.
The delay of your letter will apologize for this delay of the repayment. I thank you also,
for the extract of the letter you were so kind as to communicate to me, on the antiquities
found in the western country. I wish that the persons who go thither, would make very exact
descriptions of what they see of that kind, without forming any theories. The moment a person
forms a theory, his imagination sees in every object, only the traits which favor that theory.
But it is too early to form theories on those antiquities. We must wait with patience till
more facts are collected. I wish your Philosophical Society would collect exact descriptions
of the several monuments as yet known, and insert them naked in their Transactions, and continue
their attention to those hereafter to be discovered. Patience and observation may enable us,
in time, to solve the problem, whether those who formed the scattering monuments in our western
country, were colonies sent off from Mexico or the founders of Mexico itself; whether both
were the descendants or the progenitors of the Asiatic red men. The Mexican tradition, mentioned
by Dr. Robertson, is an evidence, but a feeble one, in favor of the one opinion. The number
of languages radically different, is a strong evidence in favor of the contrary one. There
is an American by the name of Ledyard, he who was with Captain Cook on his last voyage, and
wrote an account of that voyage, who has gone to St. Petersburg; from thence he was to go to
Kamtschatka; to cross over thence to the northwest coast of America, and to penetrate through
the main continent, to our side of it. He is a person of ingenuity and information. Unfortunately,
he has too much imagination. However, if he escapes safely, he will give us new, curious, and
useful information. I had a letter from him, dated last March, when he was about to leave St.
Petersburg on his way to Kamtschatka.

With respect to the inclination of the strata of rocks, I had observed them between the Blue
Ridge and North Mountains in Virginia, to be parallel with the pole of the earth. I observed
the same thing in most instances in the Alps, between Cette and Turin: but in returning along
the precipices of the Apennines, where they hang over the Mediterranean, their direction was
totally different and various: and you mention, that in our western country, they are horizontal.
This variety proves they have not been formed by subsidence, as some writers of theories of
the earth have pretended; for then they should always have been in circular strata, and concentric.
It proves, too, that they have not been formed by the rotation of the earth on its axis, as
might have been suspected, had all these strata been parallel with that axis. They may, indeed,
have been thrown up by explosions, as Whitehurst supposes, or have been the effect of convulsions.
But there can be no proof of the explosion, nor is it probable that convulsions have deformed
every spot of the earth. Why seek further the solution of this phenomenon? Every thing in nature
decays. If it were not reproduced then by growth, there would be a chasm.

I remember you asked me in a former letter, whether the steam-mill in London was turned by
the steam immediately, or by the intermediate agency of water raised by the steam. When I was
in London, Boulton made a secret of his mill. Therefore, I was permitted to see it only superficially.
I saw no water-wheels, and therefore supposed none. I answered you, accordingly, that there
were none. But when I was at Nismes, I went to see the steam-mill there, and they showed it
to me in all its parts. I saw that their steam raised water, and that this water turned a wheel.
I expressed my doubts of the necessity of the inter-agency of water, and that the London mill
was without it. But they supposed me mistaken; perhaps I was so: I have had no opportunity
since of clearing up the doubt.

*****

I had a letter from Mr. Churchman, but not developing his plan of knowing the longitude, fully.
I wrote him what was doubted about it, so far as we could conjecture what it was.

Paris, September 22,1787.

Sir,

The letters of which the inclosed are copies, are this moment received, and as there is a possibility
that they may reach Havre before the packet sails, I have the honor of enclosing them to you.
They contain a promise of reducing the duties on tar, pitch, and turpentine, and that the government
will interest itself with the city of Rouen, to reduce the local duty on potash. By this you
will perceive, that we are getting on a little in this business, though under their present
embarrassments, it is difficult to procure the attention of the ministers to it. The parliament
has enregistered the edict for a rigorous levy of the deux vingtièmes. As this was proposed
by the King in lieu of the impôt territorial, there is no doubt now, that the latter, with
the stamp tax, will be immediately repealed. There can be no better proof of the revolution
in the public opinion, as to the powers of the monarch, and of the force, too, of that opinion.
Six weeks ago, we saw the King displaying the plenitude of his omnipotence, as hitherto conceived,
to enforce these two acts. At this day, he is forced to retract them by the public voice; for
as to the opposition of the parliamemt, that body is too little esteemed to produce this effect
in any case, where the public do not throw themselves into the same scale.

Paris, September 22, 1787.

Sir,

When I had the honor of addressing you this morning, intelligence was handing about, which
I did not think well enough authenticated to communicate to you. As it is now ascertained,
I avail myself of the chance that another post may yet reach Havre, before the departure of
the packet. This will depend on the wind, which has for some days been unfavorable. An official
letter from the Hague, of the 18th instant, assures that the Prussian army entered the territory
of Holland on the 15th, that most of the principal towns had submitted, some after firing a
gun or two, others without resistance: that the Rhingrave de Salm had evacuated Utrecht, with
part of the troops under his command, leaving behind him one hundred and forty-four pieces
of cannon, with great warlike stores: that the standard of Orange was hoisted every where:
that no other cockade could be worn at the Hague: that the States General were to assemble
that night for reinstating the Stadtholder in all his rights. The letter concludes, 'We have
this moment intelligence that Woerden has capitulated; so that Amsterdam remains without defence.'
So far the letter. We know, otherwise, that Monsieur de St. Priest, who had set out on his
embassy to the Hague, has stopped at Antwerp, not choosing to proceed further till new orders.
This Court has been completely deceived, first by its own great desire to avoid a war, and
secondly by calculating that the King of Prussia would have acted on principles of common sense,
which would surely have dictated, that a power, lying between the jaws of Russia and Austria,
should not separate itself from France, unless, indeed, he had assurances of dispositions in
those two powers, which are not supposed to exist. On the contrary, I am persuaded that they
ask the alliance of France, whom we suppose to be under hesitations between her reluctance
to abandon the Turks, her jealousy of increasing by their spoils the power of the two empires,
and her inability to oppose them. If they cannot obtain her alliance, they will surely join
themselves to England and Prussia.

Official advices are received, that the first division of the Russian army has passed the Borysthenes
into the Polish Ukraine, and is marching towards the frontiers of Turkey. Thus, we may consider
the flames of war as completely kindled in two distinct parts of this quarter of the globe,
and that though France and England have not yet engaged themselves in it, the probabilities
are that they will do it.

Paris, September 22, 1787.

Sir,

I am honored by your favor of the 17th instant. A war between France and England does not necessarily
engage America in it; and I think she will be disposed rather to avail herself of the advantages
of a neutral power. By the former usage of nations, the goods of a friend were safe, though
taken in an enemy bottom, and those of an enemy were lawful prize, though found in a free bottom.
But in our treaties with France, &c. we have established the simpler rule, that a free bottom
makes free goods, and an enemy bottom, enemy goods. The same rule has been adopted by the treaty
of armed neutrality between Russia, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, and Portugal, and assented to
by France and Spain. Contraband goods, however, are always excepted, so that they may still
be seized; but the same powers have established that naval stores are not contraband: and this
may be considered now as the law of nations. Though England acquiesced under this during the
late war, rather than draw on herself the neutral powers, yet she never acceded to the new
principle, and her obstinacy on this point is what has prevented the late renewal of her treaty
with Russia. On the commencement of a new war, this principle will probably be insisted on
by the neutral powers, whom we may suppose to be Sweden, Denmark, Portugal, America, and perhaps
Spain. Quere; if England will again acquiesce. Supposing these details might be useful to you,
I have taken the liberty of giving them, and of assuring you of the esteem with which I am,
Sir, your very humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER XCVII.--TO JOHN JAY, September 24, 1787

TO JOHN JAY.

Paris, September 24, 1787.

Sir,

The times are now so critical, that every day brings something new and important, not known
the day before. Observing the wind still unfavorable, I am in hopes the packet may not sail
to-morrow, and that this letter may be at Havre in time for that conveyance. Mr. Eden has waited
on Count Montmorin to inform him, officially, that England must consider its convention with
France, relative to the giving notice of its naval armaments, as at an end, and that they are
arming generally. This is considered here as a declaration of war. The Dutch ambassador told
me yesterday, that he supposed the Prussian troops probably in possession of the Hague. I asked
him if it would interrupt the course of business, commercial or banking, in Amsterdam; and
particularly, whether our depot of money there was safe. He said, the people of Amsterdam would
be surely so wise as to submit, when they should see that they could not oppose the Stadtholder:
therefore he supposed our depot safe, and that there would be no interruption of business.

Paris, September 28, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I received your favor by Mr. Cutting, and thank you sincerely for the copy of your book. The
departure of a packet-boat, which always gives me full employment for some time before, has
only permitted me to look into it a little. I judge of it from the first volume, which I thought
formed to do a great deal of good. The first principle of a good government, is certainly a
distribution of its powers into executive, judiciary, and legislative, and a subdivision of
the latter into two or three branches. It is a good step gained, when it is proved that the
English constitution, acknowledged to be better than all which have preceded it, is only better,
in proportion as it has approached nearer to this distribution of powers. From this, the last
step is easy, to show by a comparison of our constitutions with that of England, how much more
perfect they are. The article of Confederations is certainly worthy of your pen. It would form
a most interesting addition, to show, what has been the nature of the Confederations which
have existed hitherto, what were their excellencies, and what their defects.

A comparison of ours with them would be to the advantage of ours, and would increase the veneration
of our countrymen for it. It is a misfortune, that they do not sufficiently know the value
of their constitutions, and how much happier they are rendered by them, than any other people
on earth, by the governments under which they live.

You know all that has happened in the United Netherlands. You know also that our friends, Van
Staphorsts, will be among the most likely to become objects of severity, if any severities
should be exercised. Is the money in their hands entirely safe? If it is not, I am sure you
have already thought of it. Are we to suppose the game already up, and that the Stadtholder
is to be reestablished, perhaps erected into a monarch, without the country lifting a finger
in opposition to it? If so, it is a lesson the more for us. In fact, what a crowd of lessons
do the present miseries of Holland teach us? Never to have an hereditary officer of any sort:
never to let a citizen ally himself with kings: never to call in foreign nations to settle
domestic differences: never to suppose that any nation will expose itself to war for us, &c.
Still I am not without hopes, that a good rod is in soak for Prussia, and that England will
feel the end of it. It is known to some, that Russia made propositions to the Emperor and France,
for acting in concert; that the Emperor consents, and has disposed four camps of one hundred
and eighty thousand men, from the limits of Turkey to those of Prussia. This court hesitates,
or rather its Premier hesitates; for the Queen, Montmorin, and Breteuil are for the measure.
Should it take place, all may yet come to rights, except for the Turks, who must retire from
Europe, and this they must do, were France Quixotic enough to undertake to support them. We,
I hope, shall be left free to avail ourselves of the advantages of neutrality: and yet, much
I fear, the English, or rather their stupid King, will force us out of it. For thus I reason.
By forcing us into the war against them, they will be engaged in an expensive land war, as
well as a sea war. Common sense dictates, therefore, that they should let us remain neuter:
ergo, they will not let us remain neuter. I never yet found any other general rule for foretelling
what they will do, but that of examining what they ought not to do.

*****

I have the honor to be, with my best respects to Mrs. Adams, and sentiments of perfect esteem
and regard to yourself, Sir, your most obedient and most humble servant,

Th: Jefferson

LETTER XCIX.--TO COLONEL SMITH, September 28,1787

TO COLONEL SMITH.

Paris, September 28,1787.

Dear Sir,

I have duly received your favor by Mr. Cutting. I had before had a transient acquaintance with
him, and knew him to be sensible. Your recommendation is always a new merit. I really think,
and had taken the liberty some time ago of hinting to Congress, that they would do well to
have a diplomatic character at Lisbon. There is no country whose commerce is more interesting
to us. I wish Congress would correspond to the wishes of that court, in sending a person there,
and to mine, in sending yourself. For I confess, I had rather see you there than at London,
because I doubt whether it be honorable for us to keep any body at London, unless they keep
some person at New York. Of all nations on earth, they require to be treated with the most
hauteur. They require to be kicked into common good manners. You ask, if you shall say any
thing to Sullivan about the bill. No. Only that it is paid. I have, within these two or three
days, received letters from him explaining the matter. It was really for the skin and bones
of the moose, as I had conjectured. It was my fault, that I had not given him a rough idea
of the expense I would be willing to incur for them. He had made the acquisition an object
of a regular campaign, and that too of a winter one. The troops he employed sallied forth,
as he writes me, in the month of March--much snow--a herd attacked--one killed--in the wilderness--a
road to cut twenty miles--to be drawn by hand from the frontiers to his house--bones to be
cleaned, &c. &c. &c. In fine, he put himself to an infinitude of trouble, more than I meant:
he did it cheerfully, and I feel myself really under obligations to him. That the tragedy might
not want a proper catastrophe, the box, bones, and all are lost: so that this chapter of Natural
History will still remain a blank. But I have written to him not to send me another. I will
leave it for my successor to fill up, whenever I shall make my bow here. The purchase for Mrs.
Adams shall be made, and sent by Mr. Cutting. I shall always be happy to receive her commands.
Petit shall be made happy by her praises of his last purchase for her. I must refer you to
Mr. Adams for the news. Those respecting the Dutch you know as well as I. Nor should they be
written but with the pen of Jeremiah. Adieu, mon ami! Yours affectionately,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER C.--TO MONSIEUR LE COMTE DE BUFFON, October 3, 1787

TO MONSIEUR LE COMTE DE BUFFON.

Paris, October 3, 1787.

Sir,

I had the honor of informing you, some time ago, that I had written to some of my friends in
America, desiring they would send me such of the spoils of the moose, caribou, elk, and deer,
as might throw light on that class of animals; but more particularly, to send me the complete
skeleton, skin, and horns of the moose, in such condition as that the skin might be sewed up
and stuffed, on its arrival here. I am happy to be able to present to you at this moment, the
bones and skin of a moose, the horns of another individual of the same species, the horns of
the caribou, the elk, the deer, the spiked-horned buck, and the roebuck of America. They all
come from New Hampshire and Massachusetts, and were received by me yesterday. I give you their
popular names, as it rests with yourself to decide their real names. The skin of the moose
was dressed with the hair on, but a great deal of it has come off, and the rest is ready to
drop off. The horns of the elk are remarkably small. I have certainly seen some of them, which
would have weighed five or six times as much. This is the animal which we call elk in the southern
parts of America, and of which I have given some description in the Notes on Virginia, of which
I had the honor of presenting you a copy. I really doubt, whether the flat-horned elk exists
in America: and I think this may be properly classed with the elk, the principal difference
being in the horns. I have seen the daim, the cerf, the chevreuil, of Europe. But the animal
we call elk, and which may be distinguished as the round-horned elk, is very different from
them. I have never seen the brand-hirtz or cerf d'Ardennes, nor the European elk. Could I get
a sight of them, I think I should be able to say which of them the American elk resembles most,
as I am tolerably well acquainted with that animal. I must observe, also, that the horns of
the deer, which accompany these spoils, are not of the fifth or sixth part of the weight of
some that I have seen. This individual has been of three years of age, according to our method
of judging. I have taken measures, particularly, to be furnished with large horns of our elk
and our deer, and therefore beg of you not to consider those now sent, as furnishing a specimen
of their ordinary size. I really suspect you will find that the moose, the round-horned elk,
and the American deer are species not existing in Europe. The moose is, perhaps, of a new class.

Paris, October 4,1787.

Sir,

I received your favor of the 23rd of September two days ago. That of the 28th and 29th was
put in my hands this morning. I immediately waited on the ambassadors, ordinary and extraordinary,
of the United Netherlands, and also on the envoy of Prussia, and asked their good offices to
have an efficacious protection extended to your person, your family, and your effects, observing,
that the United States know no party, but are the friends and allies of the United Netherlands
as a nation, and would expect from their friendship, that the person who is charged with their
affairs, until the arrival of a minister, should be covered from all insult and injury, which
might be offered him by a lawless mob; well assured that their minister, residing with Congress,
would on all occasions receive the same. They have been so good as to promise me, each, that
he will in his first despatches press this matter on the proper power, and give me reason to
hope that it will be efficacious for your safety. I will transmit your letter to Mr. Jay by
the Count de Moustier, who sets out within a week for New York, as Minister Plenipotentiary
for France, in that country.

Paris, October 8, 1787.

Sir,

I had the honor of writing you on the 19th of September, twice on the 22nd, and again on the
24th. The two first went by the packet, the third by a vessel bound to Philadelphia. I have
not yet learned by what occasion the last went. In these several letters, I communicated to
you the occurrences of Europe, as far as they were then known. Notwithstanding the advantage
which the Emperor seemed to have gained over his subjects of Brabant, by the military arrangements
he had been permitted to make under false pretexts, he has not obtained his ends. He certainly
wished to enforce his new regulations; but he wished more to be cleared of all domestic difficulties,
that he might be free to act in the great scenes which are preparing for the theatre of Europe.
He seems, therefore, to have instructed his Governor General of the Netherlands to insist on
compliance as far as could be insisted, without producing resistance by arms; but at the same
time, to have furnished him with a sufficiently complete recantation, to prevent the effects
of insurrection. The Governor pressed; the people were firm; a small act of force was then
attempted, which produced a decided resistance, in which the people killed several of the military:
the last resource was then used, which was the act of recantation; this produced immediate
tranquillity, and every thing there is now finally settled, by the Emperor's relinquishment
of his plans.

My letter of the evening of September the 22nd informed you that the Prussian troops had entered
Holland, and that of the 24th, that England had announced to this court that she was arming
generally. These two events being simultaneous, proved that the two sovereigns acted in concert.
Immediately after, the court of London announced to the other courts of Europe, that if France
entered Holland with armed force, she would consider it as an act of hostility, and declare
war against her; sending Mr. Grenville here, at the same time, to make what she called a conciliatory
proposition. This proposition was received as a new insult, Mr. Grenville very coolly treated,
and he has now gone back. It is said, he has carried the ultimatum of France. What it is, particularly,
has not transpired; it is only supposed, in general, to be very firm. You will see, in one
of the Leyden gazettes, one of the letters written by the ministers of England to the courts
of their respective residence, communicating the declaration before mentioned. In the mean
time, Holland has been sooner reduced by the Prussian troops, than could have been expected.
The abandonment of Utrecht by the Rhingrave of Salm, seems to have thrown the people under
a general panic, during which every place submitted, except Amsterdam. That had opened conferences
with the Duke of Brunswick; but as late as the 2nd instant, no capitulation was yet concluded.
The King of Prussia, on his first move, demanded categorically of the King of Poland, what
part he intended to act in the event of war. The latter answered, he should act as events should
dictate; and is, in consequence of this species of menace from Prussia, arming himself. He
can bring into the field about seventy thousand good cavalry. In the mean time, though nothing
transpires publicly of the confederation between France and the two empires, mentioned in my
letter of September the 19th, it is not the less sure that it is on the carpet, and will take
place. To the circumstances before mentioned, may be added, as further indications of war,
the naming as Generalissimo of their marine on the Atlantic, Monsieur de Suffrein, on the Mediterranean,
Monsieur Albert de Rioms, the recalling Monsieur de St. Priest, their ambassador, from Antwerp,
before he had reached the Hague, and the activity of their armies by sea. On the other hand,
the little movement by land would make one suppose they expected to put the King of Prussia
into other hands. They too, like the Emperor, are arranging matters at home. The rigorous levy
of the deux vingtiemes is enregistered, the stamp act and impot territorial are revoked, the
parliament recalled, the nation soothed by these acts, and inspired by the insults of the British
court. The part of the Council still leaning towards peace are become unpopular, and perhaps
may feel the effects of it. No change in the administration has taken place since my last,
unless we may consider as such, Monsieur Cabarrus's refusal to stand in the lines. Thinking
he should be forced to follow, too seriously, plans formed by others, he has declined serving.

Should this war take place, as is quite probable, and should it be as general as it threatens
to be, our neutrality must be attended with great advantages. Whether of a nature to improve
our morals or our happiness, is another question. But is it sure that Great Britain, by her
searches, her seizures, and other measures for harassing us, will permit us to preserve our
neutrality? I know it may be argued, that the land-war, which she would superadd to her sea-war,
by provoking us to join her enemies, should rationally hold her to her good behavior with us.
But since the accession of the present monarch, has it not been passion, and not reason, which,
nine times out of ten, has dictated her measures? Has there been a better rule of prognosticating
what he would do, than to examine what he ought not to do? When I review his dispositions and
review his conduct, I have little hope of his permitting our neutrality. He will find subjects
of provocation in various articles of our treaty with France, which will now come into view,
in all their consequences, and in consequences very advantageous to the one, and injurious
to the other country. I suggest these doubts, on a supposition that our magazines are not prepared
for war, and in the opinion that provisions for that event should be thought of.

The enclosed letter from Mr. Dumas came to me open, though directed to you. I immediately waited
on the ambassadors, ordinary and extraordinary, of Holland, and the envoy of Prussia, and prayed
them to interest themselves to have his person, his family, and his goods protected. They promised
me readily to do it, and have written accordingly; I trust it will be with effect. I could
not avoid enclosing you the letter from Monsieur Bouebe, though I have satisfied him he is
to expect nothing from Congress for his inventions. These are better certified than most of
those things are; but if time stamps their worth, time will give them to us. He expects no
further answer. The gazettes of Leyden and France to this date accompany this, which will be
delivered you by the Count de Moustier, Minister Plenipotentiary from this country.

Paris, October 8, 1787.

Dear Sir,

The bearer hereof, the Count de Moustier, successor to Monsieur de la Luzerne, would, from
his office, need no letter of introduction to you or to any body. Yet I take the liberty of
recommending him to you, to shorten those formal approaches, which the same office would otherwise
expose him to, in making your acquaintance. He is a great enemy to formality, etiquette, ostentation,
and luxury. He goes with the best dispositions to cultivate society, without poisoning it by
ill example. He is sensible, disposed to view things favorably, and being well acquainted with
the constitution of England, her manners, and language, is the better prepared for his station
with us. But I should have performed only the lesser, and least pleasing half of my task, were
I not to add my recommendations of Madame de Brehan. She is goodness itself. You must be well
acquainted with her. You will find her well disposed to meet your acquaintance, and well worthy
of it. The way to please her, is to receive her as an acquaintance of a thousand years' standing.
She speaks little English. You must teach her more, and learn French from her. She hopes, by
accompanying Monsieur de Moustier, to improve her health, which is very feeble, and still more,
to improve her son in his education, and to remove him to a distance from the seductions of
this country. You will wonder to be told, that there are no schools in this country to be compared
to ours in the sciences. The husband of Madame de Brehan is an officer, and obliged by the
times to remain with the army. Monsieur de Moustier brings your watch. I have worn it two months,
and really find it a most incomparable one. It will not want the little re-dressing, which
new watches generally do, after going about a year. It costs six hundred livres. To open it
in all its parts, press the little pin on the edge with the point of your nail; that opens
the crystal; then open the dial-plate in the usual way; then press the stem, at the end within
the loop, and it opens the back for winding up or regulating.

De Moustier is remarkably communicative. With adroitness he may be pumped of any thing. His
openness is from character, not from affectation. An intimacy with him may, on this account,
be politically valuable.

I am, Dear Sir, your affectionate friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CIV.--TO JOHN JAY, October 8, 1787

TO JOHN JAY.

(Private.) Paris, October 8, 1787.

Dear Sir,

The Count de Moustier, Minister Plenipotentiary from the court of Versailles to the United
States, will have the honor of delivering you this. The connection of your offices will necessarily
connect you in acquaintance; but I beg leave to present him to you, on account of his personal
as well as his public character. You will find him open, communicative, candid, simple in his
manners, and a declared enemy to ostentation and luxury. He goes with a resolution to add no
aliment to it by his example, unless he finds that the dispositions of our countrymen require
it indispensably. Permit me, at the same time, to solicit your friendly notice, and through
you, that also of Mrs. Jay, to Madame la Marquise de Brehan, sister-in-law to Monsieur de Moustier.
She accompanies him, in hopes that a change of climate may assist her feeble health, and also,
that she may procure a more valuable education for her son, and safer from seduction, in America
than in France. I think it impossible to find a better woman, more amiable, more modest, more
simple in her manners, dress, and way of thinking. She will deserve the friendship of Mrs.
Jay, and the way to obtain hers, is to receive her and treat her without the shadow of etiquette.

The Count d'Aranda leaves us in a day or two. He desired me to recall him to your recollection,
and to assure you of his friendship. In a letter which I mean as a private one, I may venture
details too minute for a public one, yet not unamusing, or unsatisfactory. I may venture names
too, without the danger of their getting into a newspaper. There has long been a division in
the Council here, on the question of war and peace. Monsieur de Montmorin and Monsieur de Breteuil
have been constantly for war. They are supported in this by the Queen. The King goes for nothing.
He hunts one half the day, is drunk the other, and signs whatever he is bid. The Archbishop
of Toulouse desires peace. Though brought in by the Queen, he is opposed to her in this capital
object, which would produce an alliance with her brother. Whether the Archbishop will yield
or not, I know not. But an intrigue is already begun for ousting him from his place, and it
is rather probable it will succeed. He is a good and patriotic minister for peace, and very
capable in the department of finance. At least he is so in theory. I have heard his talents
for execution censured.

Can I be useful here to Mrs. Jay or yourself, in executing any commissions, great or small?
I offer you my services with great cordiality. You know whether any of the wines of this country
may attract your wishes. In my tour, last spring, I visited the best vineyards of Burgundy,
Cote-rotie, Hermitage, Lunelle, Frontignan, and white and red Bordeaux, got acquainted with
the proprietors, and can procure for you the best crops from the vigneron himself. Mrs. Jay
knows if there is any thing else here, in which I could be useful to her.

Paris, October 9,1787.

Mr. Jefferson has the honor of presenting his respects to Monsieur le Comte de Moustier, and
of taking leave of him by letter, which he is prevented doing in person, by an unexpected visit
to Versailles to-day. He will hope to have the pleasure of sometimes hearing from him, and
will take the liberty occasionally, of troubling him with a letter. He considers the Count
de Moustier as forming with himself the two end links of that chain which holds the two nations
together, and is happy to have observed in him dispositions to strengthen rather than to weaken
it. It is a station of importance, as on the cherishing good dispositions and quieting bad
ones, will depend in some degree the happiness and prosperity of the two countries. The Count
de Moustier will find the affections of the Americans with France, but their habits with England.
Chained to that country by circumstances, embracing what they loathe, they realize the fable
of the living and the dead bound together. Mr. Jefferson troubles the Count de Moustier with
two letters, to gentlemen whom he wishes to recommend to his particular acquaintance, and to
that of Madame de Brehan. He bids Monsieur de Moustier a most friendly adieu, and wishes him
every thing which may render agreeable his passage across the water, and his residence beyond it.

LETTER CVI.--TO MADAME DE BREHAN, October 9, 1787

TO MADAME DE BREHAN.

Paris, October 9, 1787.

Persuaded, Madam, that visits at this moment must be troublesome I beg you to accept my adieus,
in this form. Be assured, that no one mingles with them more regret at separating from you.
I will ask your permission to inquire of you by letter sometimes, how our country agrees with
your health and your expectations, and will hope to hear it from yourself. The imitation of
European manners, which you will find in our towns, will, I fear, be little pleasing. I beseech
you to practise still your own, which will furnish them a model of what is perfect. Should
you be singular, it will be by excellence, and after a while you will see the effect of your
example.

Heaven bless you, Madam, and guard you under all circumstances; give you smooth waters, gentle
breezes, and clear skies, hushing all its elements into peace, and leading with its own hand
the favored bark, till it shall have safely landed its precious charge on the shores of our
new world.

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CVII.--TO MR. DUMAS, October 14, 1787

TO MR. DUMAS.

Paris, October 14, 1787.

Sir,

I have duly received your favors of October the 23rd and 26th. With respect to the mission
you suggest, in the former, no powers are lodged in the hands of Mr. Adams and myself. Congress
commissioned Mr. Adams, Doctor Franklin, and myself, to treat with the Emperor on the subjects
of amity and commerce: at the same time, they gave us the commission to Prussia, with which
you are acquainted. We proposed treating through the Imperial ambassador here. It was declined
on their part, and our powers expired, having been given but for two years. Afterwards, the
same ambassador here was instructed to offer to treat with us. I informed him our powers were
expired, but that I would write to Congress on the subject. I did so, but have never yet received
an answer. Whether this proceeds from a change of opinion in them, or from the multiplicity
of their occupations, I am unable to say: but this state of facts will enable you to see that
we have no powers, in this instance, to take the measures you had thought of. I sincerely sympathize
with you in your sufferings. Though forbidden by my character to meddle in the internal affairs
of an allied State, it is the wish of my heart that their troubles may have such an issue,
as will secure the greatest degree of happiness to the body of the people: for it is with the
mass of the nation we are allied, and not merely with their governors. To inform the minds
of the people, and to follow their will, is the chief duty of those placed at their head. What
party in your late struggles was most likely to do this, you are more competent to judge than I am.

Paris, October 18, 1787.

I now have the honor, Madam, to send you the Memoire of M. de Calonne. Do not injure yourself
by hurrying its perusal. Only, when you shall have read it at your ease, be so good as to send
it back, that it may be returned to the Duke of Dorset. You will read it with pleasure. It
has carried comfort to my heart, because it must do the same to the King and the nation. Though
it does not prove M. de Calonne to be more innocent than his predecessors, it shows him not
to have been that exaggerated scoundrel, which the calculations and the clamors of the public
have supposed. It shows that the public treasures have not been so inconceivably squandered,
as the parliaments of Grenoble, Toulouse, &c. had affirmed. In fine, it shows him less wicked,
and France less badly governed, than I had feared. In examining my little collection of books,
to see what it could furnish you on the subject of Poland, I find a small piece which may serve
as a supplement to the history I had sent you. It contains a mixture of history and politics,
which I think you will like--How do you do this morning? I have feared you exerted and exposed
yourself too much yesterday. I ask you the question, though I shall not await its answer. The
sky is clearing, and I shall away to my hermitage. God bless you, my Dear Madam, now and always.
Adieu.

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CIX.--TO THE COUNT DE MONTMORIN, October 23, 1787

TO THE COUNT DE MONTMORIN.

Paris, October 23, 1787.

Sir,

I take the liberty of troubling your Excellency on the subject of the Arrêt, which has lately
appeared, for prohibiting the importation of whale-oils and spermaceti, the produce of foreign
fisheries. This prohibition, being expressed in general terms, seems to exclude the whale-oils
of the United States of America, as well as of the nations of Europe. The uniform disposition,
however, which his Majesty and his ministers have shown to promote the commerce between France
and the United States, by encouraging our productions to come hither, and particularly those
of our fisheries, induces me to hope, that these were not within their view, at the passing
of this Arrêt. I am led the more into this opinion, when I recollect the assiduity exercised
for several months, in the year 1785, by the committee appointed by government to investigate
the objects of commerce of the two countries, and to report the encouragements of which it
was susceptible; the result of that investigation, which his Majesty's Comptroller General
did me the honor to communicate, in a letter of the 22nd of October, 1786, stating therein
the principles which should be established for the future regulation of that commerce, and
particularly distinguishing the article of whale-oils by an abatement of the duties on them
for the present, and a promise of farther abatement after the year 1790; the thorough re-investigation
with which Monsieur de Lambert honored this subject when the letter of 1786 was to be put into
the form of an Arrêt; that Arrêt itself, bearing date the 29th of December last, which ultimately
confirmed the abatements of duty present and future, and declared that his Majesty reserved
to himself to grant other favors to that production, if, on further information, he should
find it for the interest of the two nations; and finally, the letter in which Monsieur de Lambert
did me the honor to enclose the Arrêt, and to assure me, that the duties which had been levied
on our whale-oils, contrary to the intention of the letter of 1786, should be restored. On
a review, then, of all these circumstances, I cannot but presume, that it has not been intended
to reverse, in a moment, views so maturely digested, and uniformly pursued; and that the general
expressions of the Arrêt of September the 28th had within their contemplation the nations of
Europe only. This presumption is further strengthened by having observed, that in the treaties
of commerce, made since the epoch of our independence, the jura gentis amicissimcæ conceded
to other nations, are expressly restrained to those of the 'most favored European nation':
his Majesty wisely foreseeing that it would be expedient to regulate the commerce of a nation,
which brings nothing but raw materials to employ the industry of his subjects, very differently
from that of the European nations, who bring mostly what has already passed through all the
stages of manufacture.

On these circumstances, I take the liberty of asking information from your Excellency, as to
the extent of the late Arrêt: and if I have not been mistaken in supposing it did not mean
to abridge that of December the 29th, I would solicit an explanatory Arrêt, to prevent the
misconstruction of it, which will otherwise take place. It is much to be desired too, that
this explanation could be given as soon as possible, in order that it may be handed out with
the Arrêt of September the 28th. Great alarm may otherwise be spread among the merchants, and
adventurers in the fisheries, who, confiding in the stability of regulations, which his Majesty's
wisdom had so long and well matured, have embarked their fortunes in speculations in this branch
of business.

The importance of the subject to one of the principal members of our Union, induces me to attend
with great anxiety the re-assurance from your Excellency, that no change has taken place in
his Majesty's views on this subject; and that his dispositions to multiply, rather than diminish,
the combinations of interest between the two people, continue unaltered.

Commerce is slow in changing its channel. That between this country and the United States is
as yet but beginning; and this beginning has received some checks. The Arrêt in question would
be a considerable one, without the explanation I have the honor to ask. I am persuaded, that
a continuation of the dispositions which have been hitherto manifested towards us, will insure
effects, political and commercial, of value to both nations.

Paris, November 3, 1787.

Sir,

My last letters to you were of the 8th and 27th of October. In the former? I mentioned to you
the declaration of this country, that they would interpose with force, if the Prussian troops
entered Holland; the entry of those troops into Holland; the declaration of England, that if
France did oppose force, they would consider it as an act of war; the naval armaments on both
sides; the nomination of the Bailli de Suffrein as Generalissimo on the ocean; and the cold
reception of Mr. Grenville here, with his conciliatory propositions, as so many symptoms which
seemed to indicate a certain and immediate rupture. It was indeed universally and hourly expected.
But the king of Prussia, a little before these last events, got wind of the alliance on the
carpet between France and the two empires: he awaked to the situation in which that would place
him: he made some application to the court of St. Petersburg, to divert the Empress from the
proposed alliance, and supplicated the court of London not to abandon him. That court had also
received a hint of the same project; both seemed to suspect, for the first time, that it would
be possible for France to abandon the Turks, and that they were likely to get more than they
had played for at Constantinople: for they had meant nothing more there, than to divert the
Empress and Emperor from the affairs of the west, by employing them in the east, and, at the
same time, to embroil them with France as the patroness of the Turks. The court of London engaged
not to abandon Prussia: but both of them relaxed a little the tone of their proceedings. The
King of Prussia sent a Mr. Alvensleben here, expressly to explain and soothe: the King of England,
notwithstanding the cold reception of his propositions by Grenville, renewed conferences here
through Eden and the Duke of Dorset. Lest, however, these papers should not have got to Brest
before the departure of the Count de Moustier, I now enclose you other copies. The English
declaration states a notification of this court, in September, by Barthelemy, their minister
at London, 'that they would send succors into Holland,' as the first cause of England's arming;
desires an explanation of the intentions of this court, as to the affairs of Holland, and proposes
to disarm; on condition, however, that the King of France shall not retain any hostile views
in any quarter, for what has been done in Holland. This last phrase was to secure Prussia,
according to promise. The King of France acknowledges the notification by his minister at London,
promises he will do nothing in consequence of it, declares he has no intention to intermeddle
with force in the affairs of Holland, and that he will entertain hostile views in no quarter,
for what has been done there. He disavows having ever had any intention to interpose with force
in the affairs of that republic. This disavowal begins the sentence, which acknowledges he
had notified the contrary to the court of London, and it includes no apology to soothe the
feelings which may be excited in the breasts of the Patriots of Holland, at hearing the King
declare he never did intend to aid them with force, when promises to do this were the basis
of those very attempts to better their constitution, which have ended in its ruin, as well
as their own.

I have analyzed these declarations, because, being somewhat wrapped up in their expressions,
their full import might escape, on a transient reading; and it is necessary it should not escape.
It conveys to us the important lesson, that no circumstances of morality, honor, interest,
or engagement, are sufficient to authorize a secure reliance on any nation, at all times, and
in all positions. A moment of difficulty, or a moment of error, may render for ever useless
the most friendly dispositions in the King, in the major part of his ministers, and the whole
of his nation. The present pacification is considered by most, as only a short truce. They
calculate on the spirit of the nation, and not on the aged hand which guides its movements.
It is certain, that from this moment the whole system of Europe changes. Instead of counting
together England, Austria, and Russia, as heretofore, against France, Spain, Holland, Prussia,
and Turkey, the division will probably be, England, Holland, and Prussia, against France, Austria,
Russia, and perhaps Spain. This last power is not sure, because the dispositions of its heir
apparent are not sure. But whether the present be truce or peace, it will allow time to mature
the conditions of the alliance between France and the two empires, always supposed to be on
the carpet. It is thought to be obstructed by the avidity of the Emperor, who would swallow
a good part of Turkey, Silesia, Bavaria, and the rights of the Germanic body. To the two or
three first articles, France might consent, receiving in gratification a well rounded portion
of the Austrian Netherlands, with the islands of Candia, Cyprus, Rhodes, and perhaps Lower
Egypt. But all this is in embryo, uncertainly known, and counterworked by the machinations
of the courts of London and Berlin. The following solution of the British armaments is supposed
in a letter of the 25th ultimo, from Colonel Blachden of Connecticut, now at Dunkirk, to the
Marquis de la Fayette. I will cite it in his own words. "A gentleman who left London two days
ago, and came to this place to-day, informs me that it is now generally supposed that Mr. Pitt's
great secret, which has puzzled the whole nation so long, and to accomplish which design, the
whole force of the nation is armed, is to make a vigorous effort for the recovery of America.
When I recollect the delay they have made in delivering the forts in America, and that little
more than a year ago, one of the British ministry wrote to the King a letter, in which were
these remarkable words, 'If your Majesty pleases, America may yet be yours;' add to this, if
it were possible for the present ministry in England to effect such a matter, they would secure
their places and their power for a long time, and should they fail in the end, they would be
certain of holding them during the attempt, which it is in their power to prolong as much as
they please, and at all events, they would boast of having endeavored the recovery of what
a former ministry had abandoned, it is possible." A similar surmise has come in a letter from
a person in Rotterdam to one at this place. I am satisfied that the King of England believes
the mass of our people to be tired of their independence, and desirous of returning under his
government; and that the same opinion prevails in the ministry and nation. They have hired
their news-writers to repeat this lie in their gazettes so long, that they have become the
dupes of it themselves. But there is no occasion to recur to this, in order to account for
their arming. A more rational purpose avowed, that purpose executed, and when executed, a solemn
agreement to disarm, seem to leave no doubt, that the re-establishment of the Stadtholder was
their object. Yet it is possible, that having found that this court will not make war in this
moment for any ally, new views may arise, and they may think the moment favorable for executing
any purposes they may have, in our quarter. Add to this, that reason is of no aid in calculating
their movements. We are, therefore, never safe till our magazines are filled with arms. The
present season of truce, or peace, should, in my opinion, be improved without a moment's respite,
to effect this essential object, and no means be omitted, by which money may be obtained for
the purpose. I say this, however, with due deference to the opinion of Congress, who are better
judges of the necessity and practicability of the measure.

I mentioned to you, in a former letter, the application I had made to the Dutch ambassadors
and Prussian envoy, for the protection of Mr. Dumas. The latter soon after received an assurance,
that he was put under the protection of the States of Holland; and the Dutch ambassador called
on me a few days ago, to inform me, by instruction from his constituents, 'that the States
General had received a written application from Mr. Adams, praying their protection of Dumas:
that they had instructed their greffier, Fagel, to assure Mr. Adams, by letter, that he was
under the protection of the States of Holland; but to inform him, at the same time, that Mr.
Dumas's conduct, out of the line of his office, had been so extraordinary, that they would
expect de l'honnêteté de Mr. Adams, that he would charge some other person with the affairs
of the United States, during his absence.'

Your letter, of September the 8th, has been duly received. I shall pay due attention to the
instructions relative to the medals, and give any aid I can, in the case of Boss's vessel.
As yet, however, my endeavors to find Monsieur Pauly, avocat au conseil d'état, rue Coquilliere,
have been ineffectual. There is no such person living in that street. I found a Monsieur Pauly,
avocat au parlement, in another part of the town; he opened the letter, but said it could not
mean him. I shall advertise in the public papers. If that fails, there will be no other chance
of finding him. Mr. Warnum will do well, therefore, to send some other description by which
the person may be found. Indeed some friend of the party interested should be engaged to follow
up this business, as it will require constant attention, and probably a much larger sum of
money than that named in the bill inclosed in Mr. Warnum's letter.

I have the honor to enclose you a letter from O'Bryan to me, containing information from Algiers,
and one from Mr. Montgomery at Alicant. The purpose of sending you this last, is to show you
how much the difficulties of ransom are increased since the Spanish negotiations. The Russian
captives have cost about eight thousand livres apiece, on an average. I certainly have no idea
that we should give any such sum; and, therefore, if it should be the sense of Congress to
give such a price, I would be glad to know it by instruction. My idea is, that we should not
ransom but on the footing of the nation which pays least, that it may be as little worth their
while to go in pursuit of us, as any nation. This is cruelty to the individuals now in captivity,
but kindness to the hundreds that would soon be so, were we to make it worth the while of those
pirates to go out of the Streights, in quest of us. As soon as money is provided, I shall put
this business into train. I have taken measures to damp, at Algiers, all expectations of our
proposing to ransom, at any price. I feel the distress which this must occasion to our countrymen
there, and their connections; but the object of it is their ultimate good, by bringing down
their holders to such a price as we ought to pay, instead of letting them remain in such expectations
as cannot be gratified. The gazettes of France and Leyden accompany this.

     [The annexed are translations of the declaration and
     counter-declaration, referred to in the preceding letter.]

DECLARATION.

The events which have taken place in the republic of the United Provinces appearing no longer
to leave any subject of discussion, and still less of dispute, between the two courts, the
undersigned are authorized to ask, if it be the intention of his Most Christian Majesty to
act in pursuance of the notification given, on the 16th of last month, by the Minister Plenipotentiary
of his Most Christian Majesty, which, announcing his purpose of aiding Holland, has occasioned
maritime armaments on the part of his Majesty, which armaments have become reciprocal.

If the court of Versailles is disposed to explain itself on this subject, and on the conduct
adopted towards the republic, in a manner conformably to the desire, evinced by each party,
to preserve a good understanding between the two courts, it being also understood, at the same
time, that no hostile view is entertained, in any quarter, in consequence of the past; his
Majesty, always eager to manifest his concurrence in the friendly sentiments of his Most Christian
Majesty, agrees forthwith that the armaments, and, in general, all preparations for war, shall
be mutually discontinued, and that the marines of the two nations shall be placed on the footing
of a peace establishment, such as existed on the first of January of the present year.

Signed. Dorset Wm. Eden.

At Versailles, the 27th of October, 1787.

COUNTER-DECLARATION.

It neither being, nor ever having been, the intention of his Majesty to interpose by force
in the affairs of the republic of the United Provinces, the communication made to the court
of London by M. Barthelemy having had no other object than to announce to that court an intention,
the motives of which no longer-exist, especially since the King of Prussia has made known his
resolution, his Majesty makes no difficulty in declaring, that he has no wish to act in pursuance
of the communication aforesaid, and that he entertains no hostile view in any quarter, relative
to what has passed in Holland.

Signed. Montmorin.

At Versailles, the 27th of October, 1787.

LETTER CXI.--TO JOHN JAY, November 3, 1787

TO JOHN JAY.

(Private.) Paris, November 3, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I shall take the liberty of confiding sometimes to a private letter, such details of the small
history of the court or cabinet, as may be worthy of being known, and yet not proper to be
publicly communicated. I doubt whether the administration is yet in a permanent form. The Count
de Montmorin and Baron de Breteuil are, I believe, firm enough in their places. It was doubted
whether they would wait for the Count de la Luzerne, if the war had taken place: but at present
I suppose they will. I wish it also, because M. de Hector, his only competitor, has on some
occasions shown little value for the connection with us. Lambert, the Comptroller General,
is thought to be very insecure. I should be sorry also to lose him. I have worked several days
with him, the Marquis de la Fayette, and Monsieur du Pont (father of the young gentleman gone
to America with the Count de Moustier), to reduce into one Arrêt whatever concerned our commerce.
I have found him a man of great judgment and application, possessing good general principles
on subjects of commerce, and friendly dispositions towards us. He passed the Arrêt in a very
favorable form, but it has been opposed in the Council, and will, I fear, suffer some alteration
in the article of whale-oil. That of tobacco, which was put into a separate instrument, experiences
difficulties also, which do not come from him. M. du Pont has rendered us essential services
on these occasions. I wish his son could be so well noticed, as to make a favorable report
to his father; he would, I think, be gratified by it, and his good dispositions be strengthened,
and rendered further useful to us. Whether I shall be able to send you these regulations by
the present packet, will depend on their getting through the Council in time. The Archbishop
continues well with his patroness. Her object is, a close connection with her brother. I suppose
he convinces her, that peace will furnish the best occasion of cementing that connection.

It may not be uninstructive to give you the origin and nature of his influence with the Queen.
When the Duke de Choiseul proposed the marriage of the Dauphin with this lady, he thought it
proper to send a person to Vienna, to perfect her in the language. He asked his friend, the
Archbishop of Toulouse, to recommend to him a proper person. He recommended a certain Abbe.
The Abbe, from his first arrival at Vienna, either tutored by his patron, or prompted by gratitude,
impressed on the Queen's mind the exalted talents and merit of the Archbishop, and continually
represented him as the only man fit to be placed at the helm of affairs. On his return to Paris,
being retained near the person of the Queen, he kept him constantly in her view. The Archbishop
was named of the Assembly des Notables, had occasion enough there to prove his talents, and
Count de Vergennes, his great enemy, dying opportunely, the Queen got him into place. He uses
the Abbe even yet, for instilling all his notions into her mind. That he has imposing talents
and patriotic dispositions, I think is certain. Good judges think him a theorist only, little
acquainted with the details of business, and spoiling all his plans by a bungled execution.
He may perhaps undergo a severe trial. His best actions are exciting against him a host of
enemies, particularly the reduction of the pensions, and reforms in other branches of economy.
Some think the other ministers are willing he should stay in, till he has effected this odious,
yet necessary work, and that they will then make him the scape-goat of the transaction. The
declarations too, which I send you in my public letter, if they should become public, will
probably raise an universal cry. It will all fall on him, because Montmorin and Breteuil say,
without reserve, that the sacrifice of the Dutch has been against their advice. He will, perhaps,
not permit these declarations to appear in this country. They are absolutely unknown: they
were communicated to me by the Duke of Dorset, and I believe no other copy has been given here.
They will be published doubtless in England, as a proof of their triumph, and may from thence
make their way into this country. If the Premier can stem a few months, he may remain long
in office, and will never make war if he can help it. If he should be removed, the peace will
probably be short. He is solely chargeable with the loss of Holland. True, they could not have
raised money by taxes to supply the necessities of war; but could they do it were their finances
ever so well arranged? No nation makes war now-a-days, but by the aid of loans: and it is probable,
that in a war for the liberties of Holland, all the treasures of that country would have been
at their service. They have now lost the cow which furnishes the milk of war. She will be on
the side of their enemies, whenever a rupture shall take place: and no arrangement of their
finances can countervail this circumstance.

I have no doubt, you permit access to the letters of your foreign ministers, by persons only
of the most perfect trust. It is in the European system to bribe the clerks high, in order
to obtain copies of interesting papers. I am sure you are equally attentive to the conveyance
of your letters to us, as you know that all are opened that pass through any post-office of
Europe. Your letters which come by the packet, if put into the mail at New York, or into the
post-office at Havre, wear proofs that they have been opened. The passenger to whom they are
confided, should be cautioned always to keep them in his own hands, till he can deliver them
personally in Paris.

Sir,

Paris, November 6, 1787.

I take the liberty of asking your Excellency's perusal of the enclosed case of an American
hostage, confined in the prisons of Dunkirk. His continuance there seems to be useless, and
yet endless. Not knowing how far the government can interfere for his relief, as it is a case
wherein private property is concerned, I do not presume to ask his liberation absolutely: but
I will solicit from your Excellency such measures in his behalf, as the laws and usages of
the country may permit.

The Comptroller General having been so good as to explain to me in a conversation, that he
wished to know what duties were levied in England on American whale-oil, I have had the honor
of informing him by letter, that the ancient duties on that article are seventeen pounds, six
shillings, and six pence, sterling, the ton, and that some late additional duties make them
amount to about eighteen pounds sterling. That the common whale-oil sells there but for about
twenty pounds sterling, the ton, and of course the duty amounts to a prohibition. This duty
was originally laid on all foreign fish-oil, with a view to favor the British and American
fisheries. When we became independent, and of course foreign to Great Britain, we became subject
to the foreign duty. No duty, therefore, which France may think proper to lay on this article,
can drive it to the English market. It could only oblige the inhabitants of Nantucket to abandon
their fishery. But the poverty of their soil offering them no other resource, they must quit
their country, and either establish themselves in Nova Scotia, where, as British fishermen,
they may participate of the British premium, in addition to the ordinary price of their whale-oil,
or they must accept the conditions which this government offers, for the establishment they
have proposed at Dunkirk. Your Excellency will judge, what conditions may counterbalance, in
their minds, the circumstances of the vicinity of Nova Scotia, sameness of langague,[sp.] laws,
religion, customs, and kindred. Remaining in their native country, to which they are most singularly
attached, excluded from commerce with England, taught to look to France as the only country
from which they can derive sustenance, they will, in case of war, become useful rovers against
its enemies. Their position, their poverty, their courage, their address, and their hatred,
will render them formidable scourges on the British commerce. It is to be considered then,
on the one hand, that the duty which M. de Calonne had proposed to retain on their oil, may
endanger the shifting this useful body of seamen out of our joint scale into that of the British;
and also may suppress a considerable subject of exchange for the productions of France: on
the other hand, that it may produce an addition to his Majesty's revenue. What I have thus
far said, is on the supposition, that the duty may operate a diminution of the price received
by the fishermen. If it act in the contrary direction, and produce an augmentation of price
to the consumer, it immediately brings into competition a variety of other oils, vegetable
and animal, a good part of which France receives from abroad, and the fisherman, thus losing
his market, is compelled equally to change either his calling or country. When M. de Calonne
first agreed to reduce the duties to what he has declared, I had great hopes the commodity
could bear them, and that it would become a medium of commerce between France and the United
States. I must confess, however, that my expectations have not been fulfilled, and that but
little has come here as yet. This induces me to fear, that it is so poor an article, that any
duty whatever will suppress it. Should this take place, and the spirit of emigration once seize
those people, perhaps an abolition of all duty might then come too late to stop, what it would
now easily prevent. I fear there is danger in the experiment; and it remains for the wisdom
of his Majesty and his ministers to decide, whether the prospect of gain to the revenue, or
establishing a national fishery, may compensate this danger. If the government should decide
to retain the duty, I shall acquiesce in it cheerfully, and do every thing in my power to encourage
my countrymen still to continue their occupation.

The actual session of our several legislatures would render it interesting to forward immediately
the regulations proposed on our commerce; and the expiration of the order of Bernis, at the
close of this month, endangers a suspension and derangement in the commerce of tobacco, very
embarrassing to the merchants of the two countries. Pardon me therefore, Sir, if I appear solicitous
to obtain the ultimate decision of his Majesty's Council on these subjects, and to ask as early
a communication of that decision, as shall be convenient.

Paris, November 13, 1787.

Dear Sir,

This will be delivered you by young Mr. Rutledge. Your knowledge of his father will introduce
him to your notice. He merits it, moreover, on his own account.

I am now to acknowledge your favors of October the 8th and 26th. That of August the 25th was
duly received, nor can I recollect by what accident I was prevented from acknowledging it in
mine of September the 28th. It has been the source of my subsistence hitherto, and must continue
to be so, till I receive letters on the affairs of money from America. Van Staphorsts and Willinks
have answered my drafts. Your books for Marquis de la Fayette are received here. I will notify
it to him, who is at present with his Provincial Assembly in Auvergne.

Little is said lately of the progress of the negotiations between the courts of Petersburg,
Vienna, and Versailles. The distance of the former, and the cautious, unassuming character
of its minister here, is one cause of delays: a greater one is, the greediness and instable
character of the Emperor. Nor do I think that the Principal here, will be easily induced to
lend himself to any connection, which shall threaten a war within a considerable number of
years. His own reign will be that of peace only, in all probability; and were any accident
to tumble him down, this country would immediately gird on its sword and buckler, and trust
to occurrences for supplies of money. The wound their honor has sustained, festers in their
hearts; and it may be said with truth, that the Archbishop and a few priests, determined to
support his measures, because proud to see their order come again into power, are the only
advocates for the line of conduct which has been pursued. It is said, and believed through
Paris literally, that the Count de Montmorin 'pleuroit comme un enfant,' when obliged to sign
the counter-declaration. Considering the phrase as figurative, I believe it expresses the distress
of his heart. Indeed, he has made no secret of his individual opinion. In the mean time, the
Principal goes on with a firm and patriotic spirit in reforming the cruel abuses of the government,
and preparing a new constitution, which will give to this people as much liberty as they are
capable of managing. This, I think, will be the glory of his administration, because, though
a good theorist in finance, he is thought to execute badly. They are about to open a loan of
one hundred millions to supply present wants, and it is said, the preface of the Arrêt will
contain a promise of the convocation of the States General during the ensuing year. Twelve
or fifteen Provincial Assemblies are already in action, and are going on well: and I think,
that, though the nation suffers in reputation, it will gain infinitely in happiness under the
present administration. I enclose to Mr. Jay a pamphlet, which I will beg of you to forward.
I leave it open for your perusal. When you shall have read it, be so good as to stick a wafer
in it. It is not yet published, nor will be for some days. This copy has been ceded to me as
a favor.

How do you like our new constitution? I confess there are things in it, which stagger all my
dispositions to subscribe to what such an Assembly has proposed. The House of federal representatives
will not be adequate to the management of affairs, either foreign or federal. Their President
seems a bad edition of a Polish King. He may be elected from four years to four years, for
life. Reason and experience prove to us, that a chief magistrate, so continuable, is an office
for life. When one or two generations shall have proved, that this is an office for life, it
becomes, on every succession, worthy of intrigue, of bribery, of force, and even of foreign
interference. It will be of great consequence to France and England, to have America governed
by a Galloman or Angloman. Once in office, and possessing the military force of the Union,
without the aid or check of a council, he would not be easily dethroned, even if the people
could be induced to withdraw their votes from him. I wish that at the end of the four years,
they had made him for ever ineligible a second time. Indeed, I think all the good of this new
constitution might have been couched in three or four new articles to be added to the good,
old, and venerable fabric, which should have been preserved even as a religious relique. Present
me and my daughters affectionately to Mrs. Adams. The younger one continues to speak of her warmly.

Paris, November 13, 1787.

Sir,

I am now to acknowledge the receipt of your favors of October the 4th, 8th, and 26th. In the
last, you apologize for your letters of introduction to Americans coming here. It is so far
from needing apology on your part, that it calls for thanks on mine. I endeavor to show civilities
to all the Americans who come here, and who will give me opportunities of doing it: and it
is a matter of comfort to know, from a good quarter, what they are, and how far I may go in
my attentions to them.

Can you send me Woodmason's bills for the two copying presses, for the Marquis de la Fayette
and the Marquis de Chastellux? The latter makes one article in a considerable account, of old
standing, and which I cannot present for want of this article. I do not know whether it is
to yourself or Mr. Adams I am to give my thanks for the copy of the new constitution. I beg
leave, through you, to place them where due. It will yet be three weeks before I shall receive
them from America. There are very good articles in it; and very bad. I do not know which preponderate.
What we have lately read in the history of Holland, in the chapter on the Stadtholder, would
have sufficed to set me against a chief magistrate eligible for a long duration, if I had ever
been disposed towards one: and what we have always read of the elections of Polish Kings, should
have for ever excluded the idea of one continuable for life. Wonderful is the effect of impudent
and persevering lying. The British ministry have so long hired their gazetteers to repeat,
and model into every form, lies about our being in anarchy, that the world has at length believed
them, the English nation has believed them, the ministers themselves have come to believe them,
and what is more wonderful, we have believed them ourselves. Yet where does this anarchy exist?
Where did it ever exist, except in the single instance of Massachusetts? And can history produce
an instance of rebellion so honorably conducted? I say nothing of its motives. They were founded
in ignorance, not wickedness. God forbid, we should ever be twenty years without such a rebellion.
The people cannot be all, and always, well informed. The part which is wrong will be discontented,
in proportion to the importance of the facts they misconceive. If they remain quiet under such
misconceptions, it is a lethargy, the forerunner of death to the public liberty. We have had
thirteen States independent for eleven years. There has been one rebellion. That comes to one
rebellion in a century and a half for each State. What country before ever existed a century
and a half without a rebellion? And what country can preserve its liberties, if its rulers
are not warned from time to time, that this people preserve the spirit of resistance? Let them
take arms. The remedy is to set them right as to facts, pardon, and pacify them. What signify
a few lives lost in a century or two? The tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time
with the blood of patriots and tyrants. It is its natural manure. Our convention has been too
much impressed by the insurrection of Massachusetts: and on the spur of the moment, they are
setting up a kite to keep the hen-yard in order. I hope in God, this article will be rectified
before the new constitution is accepted. You ask me, if any thing transpires here on the subject
of South America? Not a word. I know that there are combustible materials there, and that they
wait the torch only. But this country probably will join the extinguishers. The want of facts
worth communicating to you, has occasioned me to give a little loose to dissertation. We must
be contented to amuse, when we cannot inform.

Paris, December 11, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I am later in acknowledging the receipt of your favors of October the 15th, and November the
5th and 15th, because we have been long expecting a packet, which I hoped would bring communications
worth detailing to you; and she arrived only a few days ago, after a very long passage indeed.
I am very sorry you have not been able to make out the cipher of my letter of September the
25th, because it contained things which I wished you to know at that time. They have lost now
a part of their merit; * but still I wish you could decipher them, as there remains a part,
which it might yet be agreeable to you to understand. I have examined the cipher, from which
it was written. It as precisely a copy of those given to Messrs. Barclay and Lambe. In order
that you may examine whether yours corresponds, I will now translate into cipher, the three
first lines of my letter of June the 14th.

*****

This will serve to show, whether your cipher corresponds with mine, as well as my manner of
using it. But I shall not use it in future, till I know from you the result of your re-examination
of it. I have the honor now, to return you the letter you had been so good as to enclose to
me. About the same time of Liston's conversation with you, similar ones were held with me by
Mr. Eden. He expected these sentiments from me personally, and he knew them to be analogous
to those of our country. We had often before had occasions of knowing each other: his peculiar
bitterness towards us had sufficiently appeared, and I had never concealed from him, that I
considered the British as our natural enemies, and as the only nation on earth, who wished
us ill from the bottom of their souls. And I am satisfied, that were our continent to be swallowed
up by the ocean, Great Britain would be in a bonfire from one end to the other. Mr. Adams,
as you know, has asked his recall. This has been granted, and Colonel Smith is to return too;
Congress having determined to put an end to their commission at that court. I suspect and hope
they will make no new appointment.

Our new constitution is powerfully attacked in the American newspapers. The objections are,
that its effect would be to form the thirteen States into one; that, proposing to melt all
down into one general government, they have fenced the people by no declaration of rights;
they have not renounced the power of keeping a standing army; they have not secured the liberty
of the press; they have reserved the power of abolishing trials by jury in civil cases; they
have proposed that the laws of the federal legislatures shall be paramount the laws and constitutions
of the States; they have abandoned rotation in office; and particularly their President may
be re-elected from four years to four years, for life, so as to render him a King for life,
like a King of Poland; and they have not given him either the check or aid of a council. To
these, they add calculations of expense, &c. &.c. to frighten the people. You will perceive
that those objections are serious and some of them not without foundation. The constitution,
however, has been received with a very general enthusiasm, and as far as can be judged from
external demonstrations, the bulk of the people are eager to adopt it. In the eastern States,
the printers will print nothing against it, unless the writer subscribes his name. Massachusetts
and Connecticut have called conventions in January, to consider of it. In New York, there is
a division. The Governor (Clinton) is known to be hostile to it. Jersey, it is thought, will
certainly accept it. Pennsylvania is divided; and all the bitterness of her factions has been
kindled anew on it. But the party in favor of it is strongest, both in and out of the legislature.
This is the party anciently of Morris, Wilson, &c., Delaware will do what Pennsylvania shall
do. Maryland is thought favorable to it; yet it is supposed Chase and Paca will oppose it.
As to Virginia, two of her Delegates, in the first place, refused to sign it. These were Randolph,
the Governor, and George Mason. Besides these, Henry, Harrison, Nelson, and the Lees are against
it. General Washington will be for it, but it is not in his character to exert himself much
in the case. Madison will be its main pillar; but though an immensely powerful one, it is questionable
whether he can bear the weight of such a host. So that the presumption is, that Virginia will
reject it. We know nothing of the dispositions of the States south of this. Should it fall
through, as is possible, notwithstanding the enthusiasm with which it was received in the first
moment, it is probable that Congress will propose, that, the objections which the people shall
make to it being once known, another convention shall be assembled, to adopt the improvements
generally acceptable, and omit those found disagreeable. In this way, union may be produced
under a happy constitution, and one which shall not be too energetic, as are the constitutions
of Europe. I give you these details, because, possibly, you may not have received them all.
The sale of our western lands is immensely successful. Five millions of acres have been sold
at private sale, for a dollar an acre, in certificates; and at the public sales, some of them
had sold as high as two dollars and forty cents the acre. The sales had not been begun two
months. By these means, taxes, &c. our domestic debt, originally twenty-eight millions of dollars,
was reduced, by the 1st day of last October, to twelve millions, and they were then in treaty-for
two millions of acres more, at a dollar, private sale. Our domestic debt will thus be soon
paid off, and that done, the sales will go on for money, at a cheaper rate, no doubt, for the
payment of our foreign debt. The petite guerre, always waged by the Indians, seems not to abate
the ardor of purchase or emigration. Kentucky is now counted at sixty thousand. Frankland is
also growing fast.

I have been told, that the cutting through the Isthmus of Panama, which the world has so often
wished, and supposed practicable, has at times been thought of by the government of Spain,
and that they once proceeded so far, as to have a survey and examination made of the ground;
but that the result was, either impracticability or too great difficulty. Probably the Count
de Campomanes, or Don Ulloa, can give you information on this head. I should be exceedingly
pleased to get as minute details as possible on it, and even copies of the survey, report,
&c. if they could be obtained at a moderate expense. I take the liberty of asking your assistance
in this.

Paris, December 12, 1787.

Dear Sir,

In the month of July, I received from Fiseaux & Co. of Amsterdam, a letter notifying me that
the principal of their loan to the United States would become due the first day of January.
I answered them that I had neither powers nor information on the subject, but would transmit
their letter to the board of treasury. I did so, by the packet which sailed from Havre, August
the 10th. The earliest answer possible would have been by the packet which arrived at Havre
three or four days ago. But by her I do not receive the scrip of a pen from any body. This
makes me suppose, that my letters are committed to Paul Jones, who was to sail a week after
the departure of the packet; and that possibly, he may be the bearer of orders from the treasury,
to repay Fiseaux' loan, with the money you borrowed. But it is also possible, he may bring
no order on the subject. The slowness with which measures are adopted on our side the water,
does not permit us to count on punctual answers; but, on the contrary, renders it necessary
for us to suppose, in the present case, that no orders will arrive in time, and to consider
whether any thing, and what, should be done. As it may be found expedient to transfer all our
foreign debts to Holland, by borrowing there, and as it may always be prudent to preserve a
good credit in that country, because we may be forced into wars, whether we will or not, I
should suppose it very imprudent to suffer our credit to be annihilated, for so small a sum
as fifty-one thousand guelders. The injury will be greater too, in proportion to the smallness
of the sum; for they will ask, 'How can a people be trusted for large sums, who break their
faith for such small ones?' You know best what effect it will have on the minds of the money-lenders
of that country, should we fail in this payment. You know best also, whether it is practicable
and prudent for us, to have this debt paid without orders. I refer the matter, therefore, wholly
to your consideration, willing to participate with you in any risk and any responsibility,
which may arise. I think it one of those cases, where it is a duty to risk one's self. You
will perceive, by the enclosed, the necessity of an immediate answer, and that, if you think
any thing can and should be done, all the necessary authorities from you should accompany your
letter. In the mean time, should I receive any orders from the treasury by Paul Jones, I will
pursue them, and consider whatever you shall have proposed or done, as non avenue.

I am, with much affection, Dear Sir, your most obedient and most humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXVII.--TO JAMES MADISON, December 20, 1787

TO JAMES MADISON.

Paris, December 20, 1787.

Dear Sir,

My last to you was of October the 8th, by the Count de Moustier. Yours of July the 18th, September
the 6th, and October the 24th, were successively received, yesterday, the day before, and three
or four days before that. I have only had time to read the letters; the printed papers communicated
with them, however interesting, being obliged to lie over till I finish my despatches for the
packet, which despatches must go from hence the day after to-morrow. I have much to thank you
for; first and most for the ciphered paragraph respecting myself. These little informations
are very material towards forming my own decisions. I would be glad even to know, when any
individual member thinks I have gone wrong in any instance. If I know myself, it would not
excite ill blood in me, while it would assist to guide my conduct, perhaps to justify it, and
to keep me to my duty, alert. I must thank you too, for the information in Thomas Burke's case;
though you will have found by a subsequent letter, that I have asked of you a further investigation
of that matter. It is to gratify the lady who is at the head of the convent wherein my daughters
are, and who, by her attachment and attention to them, lays me under great obligations, I shall
hope, therefore, still to receive from you the result of all the further inquiries my second
letter had asked. The parcel of rice which you informed me had miscarried, accompanied my letter
to the Delegates of South Carolina. Mr. Bourgoin was to be the bearer of both, and both were
delivered together into the hands of his relation here, who introduced him to me, and who,
at a subsequent moment, undertook to convey them to Mr. Bourgoin. This person was an engraver,
particularly recommended to Dr. Franklin and Mr. Hopkinson. Perhaps he may have mislaid the
little parcel of rice among his baggage. I am much pleased, that the sale of western lands
is so successful. I hope they will absorb all the certificates of our domestic debt speedily,
in the first place, and that then, offered for cash, they will do the same by our foreign ones.

The season admitting only of operations in the cabinet, and these being in a great measure
secret, I have little to fill a letter, I will therefore make up the deficiency, by adding
a few words on the constitution proposed by our convention.

I like much the general idea of framing a government, which should go on of itself, peaceably,
without needing continual recurrence to the State legislatures. I like the organization of
the government into legislative, judiciary, and executive. I like the power given the legislature
to levy taxes, and for that reason solely, I approve of the greater House being chosen by the
people directly. For though I think a House, so chosen, will be very far inferior to the present
Congress, will be very illy qualified to legislate for the Union, for foreign nations, &c.;
yet this evil does not weigh against the good of preserving inviolate the fundamental principle,
that the people are not to be taxed but by representitives[sp.] chosen immediately by themselves.
I am captivated by the compromise of the opposite claims of the great and little States, of
the latter to equal, and the former to proportional influence. I am much pleased, too, with
the substitution of the method of voting by persons, instead of that of voting by States: and
I like the negative given to the Executive, conjointly with a third of either House; though
I should have liked it better, had the judiciary been associated for that purpose, or invested
separately with a similar power. There are other good things of less moment.

I will now tell you what I do not like. First, the omission of a bill of rights, providing
clearly, and without the aid of sophism, for freedom of religion, freedom of the press, protection
against standing armies, restriction of monopolies, the eternal and unremitting force of the
habeas corpus laws, and trials by jury in all matters of fact triable by the laws of the land,
and not by the laws of nations. To say, as Mr. Wilson does, that a bill of rights was not necessary,
because all is reserved in the case of the general government which is not given, while in
the particular ones, all is given which is not reserved, might do for the audience to which
it was addressed: but it is surely a gratis dictum, the reverse of which might just as well
be said; and it is opposed by strong inferences from the body of the instrument, as well as
from the omission of the clause of our present Confederation, which had made the reservation
in express terms. It was hard to conclude, because there has been a want of uniformity among
the States as to the cases triable by jury, because some have been so incautious as to dispense
with this mode of trial in certain cases, therefore the more prudent States shall be reduced
to the same level of calamity. It would have been much more just and wise to have concluded
the other way, that as most of the States had preserved with jealousy this sacred palladium
of liberty, those who had wandered, should be brought back to it: and to have established general
right rather than general wrong. For I consider all the ill as established, which maybe established.
I have a right to nothing, which another has a right to take away; and Congress will have a
right to take away trials by jury in all civil cases. Let me add, that a bill of rights is
what the people are entitled to against every government on earth, general or particular; and
what no just government should refuse, or rest on inference.

The second feature I dislike, and strongly dislike, is the abandonment, in every instance,
of the principle of rotation in office, and most particularly in the case of the President.
Reason and experience tell us, that the first magistrate will always be re-elected if he may
be re-elected. He is then an officer for life.

This once observed, it becomes of so much consequence to certain nations, to have a friend
or a foe at the head of our affairs, that they will interfere with money and with arms. A Galloman,
or an Angloman, will be supported by the nation he befriends. If once elected, and at a second
or third election outvoted by one or two votes, he will pretend false votes, foul play, hold
possession of the reins of government, be supported by the States voting for him, especially
if they be the central ones, lying in a compact body themselves, and separating their opponents;
and they will be aided by one nation in Europe, while the majority are aided by another. The
election of a President of America, some years hence, will be much more interesting to certain
nations of Europe, than ever the election of a King of Poland was. Reflect on all the instances
in history, ancient and modern, of elective monarchies, and say, if they do not give foundation
for my fears; the Roman Emperors, the Popes while they were of any importance, the German Emperors
till they became hereditary in practice, the Kings of Poland, the Deys of the Ottoman dependencies.
It may be said, that if elections are to be attended with these disorders, the less frequently
they are repeated the better. But experience says, that to free them from disorder, they must
be rendered less interesting by a necessity of change. No foreign power, nor domestic party,
will waste their blood and money to elect a person, who must go out at the end of a short period.
The power of removing every fourth year by the vote of the people, is a power which they will
not exercise, and if they were disposed to exercise it, they would not be permitted. The King
of Poland is removable every day by the diet. But they never remove him. Nor would Russia,
the Emperor, &c. permit them to do it. Smaller objections are, the appeals on matters of fact
as well as law; and the binding all persons, legislative, executive, and judiciary, by oath,
to maintain that constitution. I do not pretend to decide, what would be the best method of
procuring the establishment of the manifold good things in this constitution, and of getting
rid of the bad. Whether by adopting it, in hopes of future amendment; or, after it shall have
been duly weighed and canvassed by the people, after seeing the parts they generally dislike,
and those they generally approve, to say to them, 'We see now what you wish. You are willing
to give to your federal government such and such powers: but you wish, at the same time, to
have such and such fundamental rights secured to you, and certain sources of convulsion taken
away. Be it so. Send together your deputies again. Let them establish your fundamental rights
by a sacrosanct declaration, and let them pass the parts of the constitution you have approved.
These will give powers to your federal government sufficient for your happiness.' This is what
might be said, and would probably produce a speedy, more perfect, and more permanent form of
government. At all events, I hope you will not be discouraged from making other trials, if
the present one should fail. We are never permitted to despair of the commonwealth. I have
thus told you freely what I like, and what I dislike, merely as a matter of curiosity; for
I know it is not in my power to offer matter of information to your judgment, which has been
formed after hearing and weighing every thing which the wisdom of man could offer on these
subjects. I own, I am not a friend to a very energetic government. It is always oppressive.
It places the governors indeed more at their ease, at the expense of the people. The late rebellion
in Massachusetts has given more alarm, than I think it should have done. Calculate that one
rebellion in thirteen States in the course of eleven years, is but one for each State in a
century and a half. No country should be so long without one. Nor will any degree of power
in the hands of government prevent insurrections. In England, where the hand of power is heavier
than with us, there are seldom half a dozen years without an insurrection. In France, Where
it is still heavier, but less despotic, as Montesquieu supposes, than in some other countries,
and where there are always two or three hundred thousand men ready to crush insurrections,
there have been three in the course of the three years I have been here, in every one of which
greater numbers were engaged than in Massachusetts, and a great deal more blood was spilt.
In Turkey, where the sole nod of the despot is death, insurrections are the events of every
day. Compare again the ferocious depredations of their insurgents, with the order, the moderation,
and the almost self-extinguishment of ours. And say, finally, whether peace is best preserved
by giving energy to the government, or information to the people. This last is the most certain
and the most legitimate engine of government. And it requires no very high degree of education
to convince them of this. They are the only sure reliance for the preservation of our liberty.
After all, it is my principle that the will of the majority should prevail. If they approve
the proposed constitution in all its parts, I shall concur in it cheerfully, in hopes they
will amend it, whenever they shall find it works wrong. This reliance cannot deceive us, as
long as we remain virtuous; and I think we shall be so, as long as agriculture is our principal
object, which will be the case, while there remain vacant lands in any part of America. When
we get piled upon one another in large cities, as in Europe, we shall become corrupt as in
Europe, and go to eating one another as they do there. I have tired you by this time with disquisitions
which you have already heard repeated by others, a thousand and a thousand times; and, therefore,
shall only add assurances of the esteem and attachment, with which I have the honor to be,
Dear Sir, your affectionate friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

P. S. The instability of our laws is really an immense evil. I think it would be well to provide
in our constitutions, that there shall always be a twelvemonth between the engrossing a bill
and passing it: that it should then be offered to its passage without changing a word: and
that if circumstances should be thought to require a speedier passage, it should take two thirds
of both Houses, instead of a bare majority.

LETTER CXVIII.--TO E. CARRINGTON, December 21, 1787

TO E. CARRINGTON

Paris, December 21, 1787.

Dear Sir,

I have just received your two favors of October the 23rd and November the 10th. I am much obliged
to you for your hints in the Danish business. They are the only information I have on that
subject, except the resolution of Congress, and warn me of a rock on which I should most certainly
have split. The vote plainly points out an agent, only leaving it to my discretion to substitute
another. My judgment concurs with that of Congress as to his fitness. But I shall inquire for
the surest banker at Copenhagen to receive the money, not because I should have had any doubts,
but because I am informed others have them. Against the failure of a banker, were such an accident,
or any similar one to happen, I cannot be held accountable in a case, where I act without particular
interest. My principal idea in proposing the transfer of the French debt, was, to obtain on
the new loans a much longer day for the reimbursement of the principal, hoping that the resources
of the United States could have been equal to the article of interest alone. But I shall endeavor
to quiet, as well as I can, those interested. A part of them will probably sell out at any
rate: and one great claimant may be expected to make a bitter attack on our honor. I am very
much pleased to hear, that our western lands sell so successfully. I turn to this precious
resource, as that which will, in every event, liberate us from our domestic debt, and perhaps
too from our foreign one: and this, much sooner than I had expected. I do not think any thing
could have been done with them in Europe. Individual speculators and sharpers had duped so
many with their unlocated land-warrants, that every offer would have been suspected.

As to the new constitution, I find myself nearly a neutral. There is a great mass of good in
it, in a very desirable form; but there is also, to me, a bitter pill or two. I have written
somewhat lengthily to Mr. Madison on this subject, and will take the liberty to refer you to
that part of my letter to him. I will add one question to what I have said there. Would it
not have been better to assign to Congress exclusively, the article of imposts for federal
purposes, and to have left direct taxation exclusively to the States? I should suppose the
former fund sufficient for all probable events, aided by the land office.

The form which the affairs of Europe may assume, is not yet decipherable by those out of the
cabinet. The Emperor gives himself, at present, the airs of a mediator. This is necessary to
justify a breach with the Porte. He has his eye at the same time on Germany, and particularly
on Bavaria, the Elector of which has, for a long time, been hanging over the grave. Probably,
France would now consent to the exchange of the Austrian Netherlands, to be created into a
kingdom for the Duke de Deux-ponts, against the electorate of Bavaria. This will require a
war. The Empress longs for Turkey, and viewing France as her principal obstacle, would gladly
negotiate her acquiescence. To spur on this, she is coquetting it with England. The King of
Prussia, too, is playing a double game between France and England. But I suppose the former
incapable of forgiving him, or of ever reposing confidence in him. Perhaps the spring may unfold
to us the final arrangement, which will take place among the powers of this continent.

I often doubt whether I should trouble Congress or my friends with these details of European
politics. I know they do not excite that interest in America, of which it is impossible for
one to divest himself here. I know too, that it is a maxim with us, and I think it is a wise
one, not to entangle ourselves with the affairs of Europe. Still, I think, we should know them.
The Turks have practised the same maxim of not meddling in the complicated wrangles of this
continent. But they have unwisely chosen to be ignorant of them also, and it is this total
ignorance of Europe, its combinations, and its movements, which exposes them to that annihilation
possibly about taking place. While there are powers in Europe which fear our views, or have
views on us, we should keep an eye on them, their connections, and oppositions, that in a moment
of need, we may avail ourselves of their weakness with respect to others as well as ourselves,
and calculate their designs and movements, on all the circumstances under which they exist.
Though I am persuaded, therefore, that these details are read by many with great indifference,
yet I think it my duty to enter into them, and to run the risk of giving too much, rather than
too little information.

P. S. The resolution of Congress, relative to the prize money received here, speaks of that
money as paid to me. I hope this matter is properly understood. The treasury board desired
me to receive it, and apply it to such and such federal purposes; and they would pay the dividends
of the claimants in America. This would save the expense of remittance. I declined, however,
receiving the money, and ordered it into the hands of their banker, who paid it away for the
purposes to which they had destined it. I should be sorry an idea should get abroad, that I
had received the money of those poor fellows, and applied it to other purposes. I shall, in
like manner, order the Danish and Barbary money into the hands of bankers, carefully avoiding
ever to touch a sou of it, or having any other account to make out than what the banker will
furnish. T. J.

LETTER CXIX.--TO MONSIEUR LIMOZIN, December 22, 1787

TO MONSIEUR LIMOZIN.

Paris, December 22, 1787.

Sir,

I have the honor now to acknowledge the receipt of your favors of the 18th and 19th of November,
and two of the 18th of the present month. I did not write to you immediately on the receipt
of the two first, because the observation they contained were to be acted on here. I was much
obliged to you for them, as I have been frequently before for others, and you will find that
I have profited by them in the Arrêt which is to come out for the regulation of our commerce,
wherein most of the things are provided for, which you have from time to time recommended.
With respect to the article of yellow wax, I think there is a general clause in the Arrêt,
which will take it in; but I am not sure of it. If there be not, it is now too late to get
any alteration made. You shall receive the Arrêt the moment it is communicated to me.

I have examined the case of Captain Thomas, with all the dispositions possible, to interpose
for him. But on mature reflection, I find it is one of those cases wherein my solicitation
would be ill received. The government of France, to secure to its subjects the carrying trade
between her colonies and the mother country, have made a law, forbidding any foreign vessels
to undertake to carry between them. Notwithstanding this, an American vessel has undertaken,
and has brought a cargo. For me to ask that this vessel shall be received, would be to ask
a repeal of the law, because there is no more reason for receiving her, than there will be
for receiving the second, third, &c, which shall act against the same law, nor for receiving
an American vessel, more than the vessels of other nations. Captain Thomas has probably engaged
in this business, not knowing the law; but ignorance of the law is no excuse, in any country.
If it were, the laws would lose their effect, because it can be always pretended. Were I to
make this application to the Comptroller General, he might possibly ask me, whether, in a like
case, of a French vessel in America acting through ignorance, against law, we would suspend
the law as to her? I should be obliged honestly to answer, that with us there is no power which
can suspend the law for a moment; and Captain Thomas knows that this answer would be the truth.
The Senegal company seems to be as much engaged in it as he is. I should suppose his most probable
means of extrication, would be with their assistance, and availing himself of their privileges,
and the apparent authority he has received from the officers of government there. I am sorry
his case is such a one, as I cannot present to the minister. A jealousy of our taking away
their carrying trade, is the principal reason which obstructs our admission into their West
India islands. It would not be right for me to strengthen that jealousy.

I have the honor to be, with much esteem, Sir, your most obedient, humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXX.--TO JOHN JAY, December 31, 1787

TO JOHN JAY.

Paris, December 31, 1787.

Sir,

Since the receipt of the letter of Monsieur de Calonne, of October the 22nd, 1786, I have several
times had the honor of mentioning to you, that I was endeavoring to get the substance of that
letter reduced into an Arrêt, which, instead of being revocable by a single letter of a Comptroller
General, would require an Arrêt to repeal or alter it, and of course must be discussed in full
Council, and so give time to prevent it. This has been pressed as much as it could be with
prudence. One cause of delay has been the frequent changes of the Comptroller General; as we
had always our whole work to begin again, with every new one. Monsieur Lambert's continuance
in office for some months has enabled us, at length, to get through the business; and I have
just received from him a letter, and the Arrêt duly authenticated; of which I have the honor
to send you a number of printed copies. You will find, that the several alterations and additions
are made, which, on my visit, to the seaports, I had found to be necessary, and which my letters
of June the 21st and August the 6th particularly mentioned to you. Besides these, we have obtained
some new articles of value, for which openings arose in the course of the negotiation. I say
we have done it, because the Marquis de la Fayette has gone hand in hand with me through this
business, and has been a most invaluable aid. I take the liberty of making some observations
on the articles of the Arrêt, severally, for their explanation, as well as for the information
of Congress.

Article 1. In the course of our conferences with the Comptroller General, we had prevailed
on him to pass this article with a suppression of all duty. When he reported the Arrêt, however,
to the Council, this suppression was objected to, and it was insisted to re-establish the duties
of seven livres and ten sous, and of ten sous the livre, reserved in the letter of M. de Calonne.
The passage of the Arrêt was stopped, and the difficulty communicated to me. I urged every
thing I could, in letters and in conferences, to convince them that whale-oil was an article
which could bear no duty at all. That if the duty fell on the consumer, he would choose to
buy vegetable oils; if on the fisherman, he could no longer live by his calling, remaining
in his own country; and that if he quitted his own country, the circumstances of vicinity,
sameness of language, laws, religion, and manners, and perhaps the ties of kindred, would draw
him to Nova Scotia, in spite of every encouragement which could be given at Dunkirk; and that
thus those fishermen would be shifted out of a scale friendly to France, into one always hostile.
Nothing, however, could prevail. It hung on this article alone, for two months, during which
we risked the total loss of the Arrêt on the stability in office of Monsieur Lambert; for if
he had gone out, his successor might be less favorable; and if Monsieur Necker were the successor,
we might lose the whole, as he never set any store by us, or the connection with us. About
ten days ago, it became universally believed that Monsieur Lambert was to go out immediately.
I therefore declined further insisting on the total suppression, and desired the Arrêt might
pass, leaving the duties on whale-oil, as Monsieur de Calonne had promised them; but with a
reservation, which may countenance our bringing on this matter again, at a more favorable moment.

Article 2. The other fish-oils are placed in a separate article; because, whatever encouragements
we may hereafter obtain for whale-oils, they will not be extended to those which their own
fisheries produce.

Article 3. A company had silently, and by unfair means, obtained a monopoly for the making
and selling spermaceti candles: as soon as we discovered it, we solicited its suppression,
which is effected by this clause.

Article 4. The duty of an eighth per cent, is merely to oblige the masters of vessels to enter
their cargoes, for the information of government; without inducing them to attempt to smuggle.

Article 6. Tar, pitch, and turpentine of America, coming in competition with the same articles
produced in the southwestern parts of France, we could obtain no greater reduction, than two
and a half per cent. The duties before were from four to six times that amount.

Article 10. The right of entrepôt, given by this article, is almost the same thing, as the
making all their ports, free ports for us. The ships are indeed subject to be visited, and
the cargoes must be reported in ports of entrepôt, which need not be done in the free ports.
But the communication between the entrepôt and the country is not interrupted by continual
search of all persons passing into the country, which has proved so troublesome to the inhabitants
of our free ports, as that a considerable proportion of them have wished to give back the privilege
of their freedom.

Article 13. This article gives us the privileges and advantages of native subjects, in all
their possessions in Asia, and in the scales leading thereto. This expression means, at present,
the isles of France and Bourbon, and will include the Cape of Good Hope, should any future
event put it into the hands of France. It was with a view to this, that I proposed the expression,
because we were then in hourly expectation of a war, and it was suspected that France would
take possession of that place. It will, in no case, be considered as including any thing westward
of the Cape of Good Hope. I must observe further, on this article, that it will only become
valuable, on the suppression of their East India Company; because, as long as their monopoly
continues, even native subjects cannot enter their Asiatic ports, for the purposes of commerce.
It is considered, however, as certain, that this Company will be immediately suppressed.

The article of tobacco could not be introduced into the Arrêt; because it was necessary to
consider the Farmers General as parties to that arrangement. It rests, therefore, of necessity,
on the basis of a letter only. You will perceive that this is nothing more than a continuation
of the order of Bernis, only leaving the prices unfixed; and like that, it will require a constant
and vexatious attention, to have its execution enforced.

The States who have much to carry, and few carriers, will observe, perhaps, that the benefits
of these regulations are somewhat narrowed, by confining them to articles brought hither in
French or American bottoms. But they will consider, that nothing in these instruments moves
from us. The advantages they hold out are all given by this country to us, and the givers will
modify their gifts as they please. I suppose it to be a determined principle of this court
not to suffer our carrying business, so far as their consumption of our commodities extends,
to become a nursery for British seamen. Nor would this, perhaps, be advantageous to us, considering
the dispositions of the two nations towards us. The preference which our shipping will obtain
on this account, may counterpoise the discouragements it experiences from the aggravated dangers
of the Barbary States. Nor is the idea unpleasing, which shows itself in various parts of these
papers, of naturalizing American bottoms, and American citizens in France and in its foreign
possessions. Once established here, and in their eastern settlements, they may revolt less
at the proposition to extend it to those westward. They are not yet, however, at that point;
we must be contented to go towards it a step at a time, and trust to future events for hastening
our progress.

With respect to the alliance between this and the two imperial courts, nothing certain transpires.
We are enabled to conjecture its progress, only from facts which now and then show themselves.
The following may be considered as indications of it. 1. The Emperor has made an attempt to
surprise Belgrade. The attempt failed, but will serve to plunge him into the war, and to show
that he had assumed the character of mediator, only to enable himself to gain some advantage
by surprise. 2. The mediation of France is probably at an end, and their abandonment of the
Turks agreed on; because they have secretly ordered their officers to quit the Turkish service.
This fact is known to but few, and not intended to be known: but I think it certain. 3. To
the offer of mediation lately made by England and Prussia, the court of Petersburg answered,
that having declined the mediation of a friendly power (France), she could not accept that
of two courts, with whose dispositions she had reason to be dissatisfied. 4. The States General
are said to have instructed their ambassador here, lately, to ask of M. de Montmorin, whether
the inquiry had been made, which they had formerly desired; 'By what authority the French engineers
had been placed in the service of Holland?' And that he answered, that the inquiry had not
been made, nor should be made. Though I do not consider the channel through which I get this
fact, as absolutely sure, yet it is so respectable, that I give credit to it myself. 5. The
King of Prussia is withdrawing his troops from Holland. Should this alliance show itself it
would seem that France, thus strengthened, might dictate the re-establishment of the affairs
of Holland, in her own form. For it is not conceivable, that Prussia would dare to move, nor
that England would alone undertake such a war, and for such a purpose. She appears, indeed,
triumphant at present; but the question is, Who will triumph last?

I enclose you a letter from Mr. Dumas. I received one from him myself, wherein he assures me,
that no difficulties shall be produced, by what he had suggested relative to his mission to
Brussels. The gazettes of France and Leyden to this date accompany this letter, which, with
the several papers put under your cover, I shall send to M. Limozin, our agent at Havre, to
be forwarded by the Juno, Captain Jenkins, which sails from that port for New York, on the
3d of January.

Paris, January 3, 1788.

Sir,

I am honored with your Excellency's letter of the 29th of December, enclosing the Arrêt on
the commerce between France and the United States. I availed myself of the occasion of a vessel
sailing this day from Havre for New York, to forward it to Congress. They will receive with
singular satisfaction, this new testimony of his Majesty's friendship for the United States,
of his dispositions to promote their interest, and to strengthen the bands which connect the
two nations.

Paris, January 21, 1788.

Sir,

I am instructed by the United States of America, in Congress assembled, to bring again under
the consideration of his Majesty, the King of Denmark, and of his ministers, the case of the
three prizes taken from the English during the late war, by an American squadron under the
command of Commodore Paul Jones, put into Bergen in distress, there rescued from our possession
by orders from the court of Denmark, and delivered back to the English. Dr. Franklin, then
Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States at the court of Versailles, had the honor of
making applications to the court of Denmark, for a just indemnification to the persons interested,
and particularly by a letter of the 22nd of December, 1779, a copy of which I have now the
honor of enclosing to your Excellency. In consequence of this, the sum of ten thousand pounds
was proposed to him, as an indemnification, through the Baron de Waltersdorff, then at Paris.
The departure of both those gentlemen from this place, soon after, occasioned an intermission
in the correspondence on this subject. But the United States continue to be very sensibly affected
by this delivery of their prizes to Great Britain, and the more so, as no part of their conduct
had forfeited their claim to those rights of hospitality, which civilized nations extend to
each other. Not only a sense of justice due to the individuals interested in those prizes,
but also an earnest desire that no subject of discontent may check the cultivation and progress
of that friendship, which they wish may subsist and increase between the two countries, prompt
them to remind his Majesty of the transaction in question; and they flatter themselves, that
his Majesty will concur with them in thinking, that as restitution of the prizes is not practicable,
it is reasonable and just that he should render, and that they should accept, a compensation
equivalent to the value of them. And the same principles of justice towards the parties, and
of amity to the United States, which influenced the breast of his Majesty to make, through
the Baron de Waltersdorff, the proposition of a particular sum, will surely lead him to restore
their full value, if that were greater, as is believed, than the sum proposed. In order to
obtain, therefore, a final arrangement of this demand, Congress have authorized me to depute
a special agent to Copenhagen, to attend the pleasure of his Majesty. No agent could be so
adequate to this business, as the Commodore Paul Jones, who commanded the squadron which took
the prizes. He will therefore have the honor of delivering this letter to your Excellency,
in person; of giving such information as may be material, relative to the whole transaction;
of entering into conferences for its final adjustment; and being himself principally interested,
not only in his own right, but as the natural patron of those who fought under him, whatever
shall be satisfactory to him, will have a great right to that ultimate approbation, which Congress
have been pleased to confide to me.

I beg your Excellency to accept the homage of that respect, which your exalted station, talents,
and merit impress, as well as those sentiments of esteem and regard, with which I have the
honor to be

Your Excellency's most obedient

and most humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXXIII.--TO WILLIAM RUTLEDGE, February 2, 1788

TO WILLIAM RUTLEDGE.

Paris, February 2, 1788.

Dear Sir,

I should have sooner answered your favor of January the 2nd, but that we have expected for
some time, to see you here. I beg you not to think of the trifle I furnished you with, nor
to propose to return it, till you shall have that sum more than you know what to do with. And
on every other occasion of difficulty, I hope you will make use of me freely. I presume you
will now remain at London, to see the trial of Hastings. Without suffering yourself to be imposed
on by the pomp in which it will be enveloped, I would recommend to you to consider and decide
for yourself these questions. If his offence is to be decided by the law of the land, why is
he not tried in that court in which his fellow citizens are tried, that is, the King's Bench?
If he is cited before another court, that he may be judged, not according to the law of the
land, but by the discretion of his judges, is he not disfranchised of his most precious right,
the benefit of the laws of his country, in common with his fellow citizens? I think you will
find, in investigating this subject, that every solid argument is against the extraordinary
court, and that every one in its favor is specious only. It is a transfer from a judicature
of learning and integrity, to one, the greatness of which is both illiterate and unprincipled.
Yet such is the force of prejudice with some, and of the want of reflection in others, that
many of our constitutions have copied this absurdity, without suspecting it to be one. I am
glad to hear that our new constitution is pretty sure of being accepted by States enough to
secure the good it contains, and to meet with such opposition in some others, as to give us
hopes it will be accommodated to them, by the amendment of its most glaring faults, particularly
the want of a declaration of rights.

The long expected edict for the Protestants at length appears here. Its analysis is this. It
is an acknowledgment (hitherto withheld by the laws) that Protestants can beget children, and
that they can die, and be offensive unless buried. It does not give them permission to think,
to speak, or to worship. It enumerates the humiliations to which they shall remain subject,
and the burthens to which they shall continue to be unjustly exposed. What are we to think
of the condition of the human mind in a country, where such a wretched thing as this has thrown
the State into convulsions, and how must we bless our own situation in a country, the most
illiterate peasant of which is a Solon, compared with the authors of this law. There is modesty
often, which does itself injury; our countrymen possess this. They do not know their own superiority.
You see it; you are young, you have time and talents to correct them. Study the subject while
in Europe, in all the instances which will present themselves to you, and profit your countrymen
of them, by making them to know and value themselves.

Paris, February 7, 1788.

Gentlemen,

Your favors of November the 10th and 13th, and December the 5th, have been duly received. Commodore
Jones left this place for Copenhagen, the 5th instant, to carry into execution the resolution
of Congress, of October the 25th. Whatever monies that court shall be willing to allow, shall
be remitted to your bankers, either in Amsterdam or Paris, as shall be found most beneficial,
allowing previously to be withdrawn Commodore Jones's proportion, which will be necessary for
his subsistence. I desired him to endeavor to prevail on the Danish minister, to have the money
paid in Amsterdam or Paris, by their banker in either of those cities, if they have one.

M. Ast (secretary to the consulate) is at L'Orient. Whether he comes up with the papers, or
sends them, they shall be received, sealed up, and taken care of. I will only ask the favor
of you, that I may never be desired to break the seals, unless very important cause for it
should arise.

I have just received from Messrs. Willincks and Van Staphorsts, a letter of January the 31st,
in which are these words: 'The official communication we have of the actual situation and prospect
of the finances of the United States, would render such a partial payment as that to Fiseaux's
house of no avail towards the support of the public credit, unless effectual measures shall
be adopted, to provide funds for the two hundred and seventy thousand florins, interest, that
will be due the first of June next; a single day's retard in which would ground a prejudice
of long duration.' They informed me, at the same time, that they have made to you the following
communication; that Mr. Stanitski, our principal broker, and holder of thirteen hundred and
forty thousand dollars, of certificates of our domestic debt, offers to have our loan of a
million of guilders (of which six hundred and twenty-two thousand eight hundred and forty are
still unfilled) immediately made up, on condition that he may retain thereout one hundred and
eighty thousand guilders, being one year's interest on his certificates, allowing a deduction
of ten per cent, from his said interest, as a compensation for his receiving it in Amsterdam
instead of America, and not pretending that this shall give him any title to ask any payment
of future interest in Europe. They observe, that this will enable them to face the demands
of Dutch interest, till the 1st of June, 1789, pay the principal of Fiseaux' debt, and supply
the current expenses of your legation in Europe. On these points, it is for you to decide.
I will only take the liberty to observe, that if they shall receive your acceptance of the
proposition, some days credit will still be to be given for producing the cash, and that this
must be produced fifteen days before it is wanting, because that much previous notice is always
given to the creditors, that their money is ready. It is, therefore, but three months from
this day, before your answer should be in Amsterdam. It might answer a useful purpose also,
could I receive a communication of that answer ten days earlier than they. The same stagnation
attending our passage from the old to the new form of government, which stops the feeble channel
of money hitherto flowing towards our treasury, has suspended also what foreign credit we had.
So that, at this moment, we may consider the progress of our loan as stopped. Though much an
enemy to the system of borrowing, yet I feel strongly the necessity of preserving the power
to borrow. Without this, we might be overwhelmed by another nation, merely by the force of
its credit. However, you can best judge whether the payment of a single year's interest on
Stanitski's certificates, in Europe, instead of America, may be more injurious to us than the
shock of our credit in Amsterdam, which may be produced by a failure to pay our interest.

I have only to offer any services which I can render in this business, either here or by going
to Holland, at a moment's warning, if that should be necessary.

Paris, February 7, 1788.

Dear Sir,

It is rendering mutual service to men of virtue and understanding, to make them acquainted
with one another. I need no other apology for presenting to your notice the bearer hereof,
Mr. Barlow. I know you were among the first who read the "Vision of Columbus," while yet in
manuscript: and think the sentiments I heard you express of that poem, will induce you to be
pleased with the acquaintance of their author. He comes to pass a few days only at London,
merely to know something of it. As I have little acquaintance there, I cannot do better for
him than to ask you to be so good as to make him known to such persons, as his turn and his
time might render desirable to him.

I thank you for the volume you were so kind as to send me some time ago. Every thing you write
is precious, and this volume is on the most precious of all our concerns. We may well admit
morality to be the child of the understanding rather than of the senses, when we observe that
it becomes dearer to us as the latter weaken, and as the former grows stronger by time and
experience, till the hour arrives in which all other objects lose all their value. That that
hour may be distant with you, my friend, and that the intermediate space may be filled with
health and happiness, is the sincere prayer of him who is, with sentiments of great respect
and friendship, Dear Sir, your most obedient, humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXXVI.--TO A. DONALD, February.7, 1788

TO A. DONALD.

Paris, February.7, 1788.

Dear Sir,

I received duly your friendly letter of November the 12th. By this time, you will have seen
published by Congress, the new regulations obtained from this court, in favor of our commerce.
You will observe, that the arrangement relative to tobacco is a continuation of the order of
Berni for five years, only leaving the price to be settled between the buyer and seller. You
will see too, that all contracts for tobacco are forbidden, till it arrives in France. Of course,
your proposition for a contract is precluded.

I fear the prices here will be low, especially if the market be crowded. You should be particularly
attentive to the article, which requires that the tobacco should come in French or American
bottoms, as this article will, in no instance, be departed from.

I wish with all my soul, that the nine first conventions may accept the new constitution, because
this will secure to us the good it contains, which I think great and important. But I equally
wish, that the four latest conventions, which ever they be, may refuse to accede to it, till
a declaration of rights be annexed. This would probably command the offer of such a declaration,
and thus give to the whole fabric, perhaps, as much perfection as any one of that kind ever
had. By a declaration of rights, I mean one which shall stipulate freedom of religion, freedom
of the press, freedom of commerce against monopolies, trial by juries in all cases, no suspensions
of the habeas corpus, no standing armies. These are fetters against doing evil, which no honest
government should decline. There is another strong feature in the new constitution, which I
as strongly dislike. That is, the perpetual re-eligibility of the President. Of this I expect
no amendment at present, because I do not see that any body has objected to it on your side
the water. But it will be productive of cruel distress to our country, even in your day and
mine. The importance to France and England, to have our government in the hands of a friend
or foe, will occasion their interference by money, and even by arms. Our President will be
of much more consequence to them than a King of Poland. We must take care, however, that neither
this, nor any other objection to the new form, produces a schism in our Union. That would be
an incurable evil, because near friends falling out, never re-unite cordially; whereas, all
of us going together, we shall be sure to cure the evils of our new constitution, before they
do great harm. The box of books I had taken the liberty to address to you, is but just gone
from Havre for New York. I do not see, at present, any symptoms strongly indicating war. It
is true, that the distrust existing between the two courts of Versailles and London, is so
great, that they can scarcely do business together. However, the difficulty and doubt of obtaining
money make both afraid to enter into war. The little preparations for war, which we see, are
the effect of distrust, rather than of a design to commence hostilities. And in such a state
of mind, you know, small things may produce a rupture: so that though peace is rather probable,
war is very possible.

Your letter has kindled all the fond recollections of ancient times; recollections much dearer
to me than any thing I have known since. There are minds which can be pleased by honors and
preferments; but I see nothing in them but envy and enmity. It is only necessary to possess
them, to know how little they contribute to happiness, or rather how hostile they are to it.
No attachments soothe the mind so much as those contracted in early life; nor do I recollect
any societies which have given me more pleasure, than those of which you have partaken with
me. 1 had rather be shut up in a very modest cottage, with my books, my family, and a few old
friends, dining on simple bacon, and letting the world roll on as it liked, than to occupy
the most splendid post, which any human power can give. I shall be glad to hear from you often.
Give me the small news as well as the great. Tell Dr. Currie, that I believe I am indebted
to him a letter, but that like the mass of our countrymen, I am not, at this moment, able to
pay all my debts; the post being to depart in an hour, and the last stroke of a pen I am able
to send by it, being that which assures you of the sentiments of esteem and attachment, with
which I am, Dear Sir, your affectionate friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXXVII.--TO M. WARVILLE, February 12, 1888

TO M. WARVILLE.

Paris, February 12, 1888.

Sir,

I am very sensible of the honor you propose to me, of becoming a member of the society for
the abolition of the slave-trade. You know that nobody wishes more ardently, to see an abolition,
not only of the trade, but of the condition of slavery: and certainly nobody will be more willing
to encounter every sacrifice for that object. But the influence and information of the friends
to this proposition in France will be far above the need of my association. I am here as a
public servant, and those whom I serve, having never yet been able to give their voice against
the practice, it is decent for me to avoid too public a demonstration of my wishes to see it
abolished. Without serving the cause here, it might render me less able to serve it beyond
the water.

Paris, March 2, 1788.--Sunday.

Dear Sir,

I received this day, a letter from Mrs. Adams, of the 26th ultimo, informing me you would set
out on the 29th for the Hague. Our affairs at Amsterdam press on my mind like a mountain. I
have no information to go on, but that of Willincks and Van Staphorsts, and according to that,
something seems necessary to be done. I am so anxious to confer with you on this subject, and
to see you and them together, and get some effectual arrangement made in time, that I determine
to meet you at the Hague. I will set out the moment some repairs are made to my carriage: it
is promised me at three o'clock to-morrow; but probably they will make it night, and that I
may not set out till Tuesday morning. In that case, I shall be at the Hague on Friday night:
in the mean time, you will perhaps have made all your bows there. I am sensible how irksome
this must be to you, in the moment of your departure. But it is a great interest of the United
States, which is at stake, and I am sure you will sacrifice to that your feelings and your
interest.

Amsterdam, March 16, 1788.

Sir,

In a letter of the 13th instant, which I had the honor of addressing you from this place, I
mentioned in general terms, the object of my journey hither, and that I should enter into more
particular details, by the confidential conveyance which would occur through Mr. Adams and
Colonel Smith.

The board of treasury had, in the month of December, informed me and our bankers here, that
it would be impossible for them to make any remittances to Europe for the then ensuing year,
and that they must, therefore, rely altogether on the progress of the late loan. But this,
in the mean time, after being about one third filled, had ceased to get forward. The bankers
who had been referred to me for advice, by Mr. Adams, stated these circumstances, and pressed
their apprehension for the ensuing month of June, when two hundred and seventy thousand florins
would be wanting for interest. In fine, they urged an offer of the holders of the former bonds,
to take all those remaining on hand, provided they might receive out of them the interest on
a part of our domestic debt, of which they had also become the holders. This would have been
one hundred and eighty thousand florins. To this proposition, I could not presume any authority
to listen. Thus pressed between the danger of failure on one hand, and this proposition on
the other, I heard of Mr. Adams being gone to the Hague to take leave. His knowledge of the
subject was too valuable to be neglected under the present difficulty, and it was the last
moment in which we could be availed of it. I set out immediately, therefore, for the Hague,
and we came on to this place together, in order to see what could be done. It was easier to
discover, than to remove, the causes which obstructed the progress of the loan. Our affairs
here, like those of other nations, are in the hands of particular bankers. These employ particular,
and they have their particular circle of money-lenders. These moneylenders, as I have before
mentioned, while placing a part of their money in our foreign loans, had at the same time employed
another part in a joint speculation, to the amount of eight hundred and forty thousand dollars,
in our domestic debt. A year's interest was becoming due on this, and they wished to avail
themselves of our want of money for the foreign interest, to obtain payment of the domestic.
Our first object was to convince our bankers, that there was no power on this side the Atlantic
which could accede to this proposition, or give it any countenance. They at length, therefore,
but with difficulty, receded from this ground, and agreed to enter into conferences with the
brokers and lenders, and to use every exertion to clear the loan from the embarrassment in
which this speculation had engaged it. What will be the result of these conferences, is not
yet known. We have hopes, however, that it is not desperate, because the bankers consented
yesterday, to pay off the capital of fifty-one thousand florins, which had become due on the
first day of January, and which had not yet been paid. We have gone still further. The treasury
board gives no hope of remittances, till the new government can procure them. For that government
to be adopted, its legislature assembled, its system of taxation and collection arranged, the
money gathered from the people into the treasury, and then remitted to Europe, must extend
considerably into the year 1790. To secure our credit then, for the present year only, is but
to put off the evil day to the next. What remains of the last loan, when it shall be filled
up, will little more than clear us of present demands, as may be seen by the estimate enclosed.
We thought it better, therefore, to provide at once for the years 1789 and 1790 also; and thus
to place the government at its ease, and her credit in security, during that trying interval.
The same estimate will show, that another million of florins will be necessary to effect this.
We stated this to our bankers, who concurred in our views, and that to ask the whole sum at
once would be better than to make demands from time to time, so small, as that they betray
to the money-holders the extreme feebleness of our resources. Mr. Adams, therefore, has executed
bonds for another million of florins; which, however, are to remain unissued till Congress
shall have ratified the measure that this transaction is something or nothing, at their pleasure.
We suppose its expediency so apparent, as to leave little doubt of its ratification. In this
case, much time will have been saved by the execution of the bonds at this moment, and the
proposition will be presented here under a more favorable appearance, according to the opinion
of the bankers. Mr. Adams is under a necessity of setting out to-morrow morning, but I shall
stay two or three days longer, to attend to and encourage the efforts of the bankers; though
it is yet doubtful whether they will ensure us a safe passage over the month of June. Not having
my letters here to turn to, I am unable to say whether the last I wrote, mentioned the declaration
of the Emperor that he should take part in the war against the Turks. This declaration appeared
a little before, or a little after that letter, I do not recollect which. Some little hostilities
have taken place between them. The court of Versailles seems to pursue immoveably its pacific
system, and from every appearance in the country from which I write, we must conclude that
its tragedy is wound up. The triumph appears complete, and tranquillity perfectly established.
The numbers who have emigrated are differently estimated, from twenty to forty thousand. A
little before I left Paris, I received a piece of intelligence, which should be communicated,
leaving you to lay what stress on it, it may seem to deserve. Its authenticity may be surely
relied on. At the time of the late pacification, Spain had about fifteen ships of the line
nearly ready for sea. The convention for disarming did not extend to her, nor did she disarm.
This gave inquietude to the court of London, and they demanded an explanation. One was given,
they say, which is perfectly satisfactory. The Russian minister at Versailles, getting knowledge
of this, became suspicious on his part. He recollected that Spain, during the late war, had
been opposed to the entrance of a Russian fleet into the Mediterranean, and concluded, if England
was not the object of this armament, Russia might be. It is known that that power means to
send a fleet of about twenty-four ships into the Mediterranean this summer. He sent to the
Count de Montmorin, and expressed his apprehensions. The Count de Montmorin declared, that
the object of Spain in that armament was totally different; that he was not sure she would
succeed; but that France and Spain were to be considered as one, and that the former would
become guarantee for the latter, that she would make no opposition to the Russian fleet. If
neither England nor Russia be the object, the question recurs, Who is it for? You know best,
if our affairs with Spain are in a situation to give jealousy to either of us. I think it very
possible, that the satisfaction of the court of London may have been pretended or premature.
It is possible also, that the affairs of Spain in South America may require them to assume
a threatening appearance. I give you the facts, however, and you will judge whether they are
objects of attention or of mere curiosity.

P. S. I enclose herewith an extract of a letter from the Count de Vergennes to the French ambassador
at the Hague, which will make a remarkable chapter in the history of the late revolution here.
It is not public, nor should be made so by us. Probably those who have been the victims of
it, will some day publish it.

LETTER CXXX.--TO MR. DUMAS, March 29, 1788

TO MR. DUMAS.

Amsterdam, March 29, 1788.

Sir,

I have now to acknowledge the receipt of your favors of the 14th, 18th, and 23rd instant. I
would have preferred doing it in person, but the season, and the desire of seeing what I have
not yet seen, invite me to take the route of the Rhine. I shall leave this place to-morrow
morning, and probably not reach Paris till the latter end of April. In the moment we were to
have conferred on the subject of paying the arrears due to you, a letter of the 20th of February,
from the board of treasury, was received, forbidding the application of money to any purpose,
(except our current claims,) till the June interest should be actually in hand. Being by the
letter, tied up from giving an order in your favor, I return you the letter you had written
to Mr. Jay, on the supposition that the order for your arrears was given. It has been suggested,
however, that if you could receive bonds of the loan, you could make them answer your purpose,
and the commissioners say, this would in no wise interfere with the views of the treasury board,
nor the provision for the June interest. I have, therefore, recommended to them in writing,
to give you bonds to the amount of your balance, if you choose to take them, rather than to
wait. I wish this may answer your purpose. I remember that in the conversation which I had
the honor of having with you, on the evening I was at the Hague, you said that your enemies
had endeavored to have it believed, that Congress would abandon you, and withdraw your appointments.
An enemy generally says and believes what he wishes, and your enemies, particularly, are not
those who are most in the counsels of Congress, nor the best qualified to tell what Congress
will do. From the evidences you have received of their approbation, and from their well known
steadiness and justice, you must be assured of a continuance of their favor, were they to continue
under the present form. Nor do I see any thing in the new government which threatens us with
less firmness. The Senate, who will make and remove their foreign officers, must, from its
constitution, be a wise and steady body. Nor would a new government begin its administration
by discarding old servants; servants who have put all to the risk, and when the risk was great,
to obtain that freedom and security under which themselves will be what they shall be. Upon
the whole, my Dear Sir, tranquillize yourself and your family upon this subject. All the evidence,
which exists as yet, authorizes you to do this, nor can I foresee any cause of disquiet in
future. That none may arise, that yourself and family may enjoy health, happiness, and the
continued approbation of those by whom you wish most to be approved, is the sincere wish of
him, who has the honor to be, with sentiments of sincere esteem and attachment, your most obedient
and most humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXXXI.--TO THE COMMISSIONERS OF THE TREASURY, March 29, 1788

TO THE COMMISSIONERS OF THE TREASURY.

Gentlemen,

Amsterdam, March 29, 1788.

*****

I cannot close my letter, without some observations on the transfer of our domestic debt to
foreigners. This circumstance, and the failure to pay off Fiseaux' loan, were the sole causes
of the stagnation of our late loan. For otherwise our credit would have stood on more hopeful
grounds than heretofore. There was a condition in the last loan, that, the lenders furnishing
one third of the money, the remaining two thirds of the bonds should remain eighteen months
unsold, and at their option to take or not, and that in the mean time, the same bankers should
open no other loan for us. These same lenders became purchasers of our domestic debt, and they
were disposed to avail themselves of the power they had thus acquired over us as to our foreign
demands, to make us pay the domestic one. Should the present necessities have obliged you to
comply with their proposition for the present year, I should be of opinion it ought to be the
last instance. If the transfer of these debts to Europe meet with any encouragement from us,
we can no more borrow money here, let our necessities be what they will. For who will give
ninety-six per cent, for the foreign obligations of the same nation, whose domestic ones can
be bought at the same market for fifty-five per cent.; the former, too, bearing an interest
of only five per cent., while the latter yields six. If any discouragements can be honestly
thrown on this transfer, it would seem advisable, in order to keep the domestic debt at home.
It would be a very effectual one, if, instead of the title existing in our treasury books alone,
it was made to exist in loose papers, as our loan office debts do. The European holder would
then be obliged to risk the title paper of his capital, as well as his interest, in the hands
of his agent in America, whenever the interest was to be demanded; whereas, at present, he
trusts him with the interest only. This single circumstance would put a total stop to all future
sales of domestic debt at this market. Whether this, or any other obstruction, can or should
be thrown in the way of these operations, is not for me to decide; but I have thought the subject
worthy your consideration.

Paris, May 2, 1788.

Dear Sir,

I am honored with your Excellency's letter by the last packet, and thank you for the information
it contains on the communication between the Cayahoga and Big Beaver. I have ever considered
the opening a canal between those two water courses, as the most important work in that line,
which the state of Virginia could undertake. If will infallibly turn through the Potomac all
the commerce of Lake Erie, and the country west of that, except what may pass down the Mississippi;
and it is important that it be soon done, lest that commerce should, in the mean time, get
established in another channel. Having, in the spring of the last year, taken a journey through
the southern parts of France, and particularly examined the canal of Languedoc, through its
whole course, I take the liberty of sending you the notes I made on the spot, as you may find
in them something perhaps, which may be turned to account, some time or other, in the prosecution
of the Potomac canal. Being merely a copy from my travelling notes, they are undigested and
imperfect, but may still, perhaps, give hints capable of improvement in your mind.

The affairs of Europe are in such a state still, that it is impossible to say what form they
will take ultimately. France and Prussia, viewing the Emperor as their most dangerous and common
enemy, had heretofore seen their common safety as depending on a strict connection with one
another. This had naturally inclined the Emperor to the scale of England, and the Empress also,
as having views in common with the Emperor, against the Turks. But these two powers would,
at any time, have gladly quitted England, to coalesce with France, as being the power which
they met every where, opposed as a barrier to all their schemes of aggrandizement. When, therefore,
the present King of Prussia took the eccentric measure of bidding defiance to France, by placing
his brother-in-law on the throne of Holland, the two empires immediately seized the occasion
of soliciting an alliance with France. The motives for this appeared so plausible, that it
was believed the latter would have entered into this alliance, and that thus the whole political
system of Europe would have taken a new form. What has prevented this court from coming into
it, we know not. The unmeasurable ambition of the Emperor, and his total want of moral principle
and honor, are suspected. A great share of Turkey, the recovery of Silesia, the consolidation
of his dominions by the Bavarian exchange, the liberties of the Germanic body, all occupy his
mind together; and his head is not well enough organized, to pursue so much only of all this,
as is practicable. Still it was thought that France might safely have coalesced with these
powers, because Russia and herself holding close together, as their interests would naturally
dictate, the Emperor could never stir, but with their permission. France seems, however, to
have taken the worst of all parties, that is, none at all. She folds her arms, lets the two
empires go to work to cut up Turkey as they can, and holds Prussia aloof, neither as a friend
nor foe. This is withdrawing her opposition from the two empires, without the benefit of any
condition whatever. In the mean time, England has clearly overreached herself. She excited
the war between the Russians and Turks, in hopes that France, still supporting the Turks, would
be embarrassed with the two empires. She did not foresee the event which has taken place, of
France abandoning the Turks, and that which may take place, of her union with the two empires.
She allied herself with Holland, but cannot obtain the alliance of Prussia. This latter power
would be very glad to close again the breach with France, and therefore, while there remains
an opening for this, holds off from England, whose fleets could not enter into Silesia, to
protect that from the Emperor. Thus you see, that the old system is unhinged, and no new one
hung in its place. Probabilities are rather in favor of a connection between the two empires,
France, and Spain. Several symptoms show themselves, of friendly dispositions between Russia
and France, unfriendly ones between Russia and England, and such as are barely short of hostility
between England and France. But into real hostilities, this country would with difficulty be
drawn. Her finances are too deranged, her internal union too much dissolved, to hazard a war.
The nation is pressing on fast, to a fixed constitution. Such a revolution in the public opinion
has taken place, that the crown already feels its powers bounded, and is obliged, by its measures,
to acknowledge limits.

A States-General will be called at some epoch not distant; they will probably establish a civil
list, and leave the government to temporary provisions of money, so as to render frequent assemblies
of the national representative necessary. How that representative will be organized, is yet
uncertain. Among a thousand projects, the best seems to me, that of dividing them into two
Houses, of Commons and Nobles; the Commons to be chosen by the Provincial Assemblies, who are
chosen themselves by the people, and the Nobles by the body of Noblesse, as in Scotland. But
there is no reason to conjecture, that this is the particular scheme which will be preferred.

The war between the Russians and Turks has made an opening for our Commodore Paul Jones. The
Empress has invited him into her service. She insures to him the rank of rear-admiral; will
give him a separate command, and it is understood, that he is never to be commanded. I think
she means to oppose him to the Captain Pacha, on the Black Sea. He is by this time, probably,
at St. Petersburg. The circumstances did not permit his awaiting the permission of Congress,
because the season was close at hand for opening the campaign. But he has made it a condition,
that he shall be free at all times to return to the orders of Congress, whenever they shall
please to call for him; and also, that he shall not, in any case be expected to bear arms against
France. I believe Congress had it in contemplation to give him the grade of admiral, from the
date of his taking the Serapis. Such a measure now, would greatly gratify him, second the efforts
of fortune in his favor, and better the opportunities of improving him for our service, whenever
the moment shall come in which we may want him.

The danger of our incurring something like a bankruptcy in Holland, which might have been long,
and even fatally felt in a moment of crisis, induced me to take advantage of Mr. Adams's journey
to take leave at the Hague, to meet him there, get him to go on to Amsterdam, and try to avert
the impending danger. The moment of paying a great sum of annual interest was approaching.
There was no money on hand; the board of treasury had notified that they could not remit any;
and the progress of the loan, which had been opened there, had absolutely stopped. Our bankers
there gave me notice of all this; and that a single day's failure in the payment of interest,
would have the most fatal effect on our credit. I am happy to inform you, we were able to set
the loan a going again, and that the evil is at least postponed. Indeed, I am tolerably satisfied,
that if the measures we proposed, are ratified by Congress, all European calls for money (except
the French debt) are secure enough, till the end of the year 1790; by which time, we calculated
that the new government might be able to get money into the treasury. Much conversation with
the bankers, brokers, and money-holders, gave me insight into the state of national credit
there, which I had never before been able satisfactorily to get. The English credit is the
first, because they never open a loan, without laying and appropriating taxes for the payment
of the interest, and there has never been an instance of their failing one day, in that payment.
The Emperor and Empress have good credit, because they use it little, and have hitherto been
very punctual. This country is among the lowest, in point of credit. Ours stands in hope only.
They consider us as the surest nation on earth for the repayment of the capital; but as the
punctual payment of interest is of absolute necessity in their arrangements, we cannot borrow
but with difficulty and disadvantage. The monied men, however, look towards our new government
with a great degree of partiality, and even anxiety. If they see that set out on the English
plan, the first degree of credit will be transferred to us. A favorable occasion will arise
to our new government of asserting this ground to themselves. The transfer of the French debt,
public and private, to Amsterdam, is certainly desirable. An act of the new government, therefore,
for opening a loan in Holland for the purpose, laying taxes at the same time for paying annually
the interest and a part of the principal, will answer the two valuable purposes, of ascertaining
the degree of our credit, and of removing those causes of bickering and irritation, which should
never be permitted to subsist with a nation, with which it is so much our interest to be on
cordial terms as with France. A very small portion of this debt, I mean that part due to the
French officers, has done us an injury, of which those in office in America cannot have an
idea. The interest is unpaid for the last three years; and these creditors, highly connected,
and at the same time needy, have felt and communicated hard thoughts of us. Borrowing, as we
have done, three hundred thousand florins a year, to pay our interest in Holland, it would
have been worth while to have added twenty thousand more, to suppress those clamors. I am anxious
about every thing which may affect our credit. My wish would be, to possess it in the highest
degree, but to use it little. Were we without credit, we might be crushed by a nation of much
inferior resources, but possessing higher credit. The present system of war renders it necessary
to make exertions far beyond the annual resources of the State, and consume in one year the
efforts of many. And this system we cannot change. It remains, then, that we cultivate our
credit with the utmost attention.

I had intended to have written a word to your Excellency on the subject of the new constitution,
but I have already spun out my letter to an immoderate length. I will just observe, therefore,
that according to my ideas, there is a great deal of good in it. There are two things, however,
which I dislike strongly, 1. The want of a declaration of rights. I am in hopes the opposition
in Virginia will remedy this, and produce such a declaration. 2. The perpetual re-eligibility
of the President. This, I fear, will make that an office for life, first, and then hereditary.
I was much an enemy to monarchies before I came to Europe. I am ten thousand times more so,
since I have seen what they are. There is scarcely an evil known in these countries, which
may not be traced to their king, as its source, nor a good, which is not derived from the small
fibres of republicanism existing among them. I can further say, with safety, there is not a
crowned head in Europe, whose talents or merits would entitle him to be elected a vestryman
by the people of any parish in America. However, I shall hope, that before there is danger
of this change taking place in the office of President, the good sense and free spirit of our
countrymen will make the changes necessary to prevent it. Under this hope, I look forward to
the general adoption of the new constitution with anxiety, as necessary for us under our present
circumstances.

Paris, May 3,1788.

Dear Sir,

Mine of February the 6th acknowledged the receipt of yours of December the 9th and 20th; since
that, those of February the 19th and 20th have come to hand. The present will be delivered
you by Mr. Warville, whom you will find truly estimable, and a great enthusiast for liberty.
His writings will have shown you this.

For public news, I must refer you to my letters to Mr. Jay. Those I wrote to him from Amsterdam
will have informed you of my journey thither. While there, I endeavored to get, as well as
I could, into the state of national credit there; for though I am an enemy to the using our
credit but under absolute necessity, yet the possessing a good credit I consider as indispensable,
in the present system of carrying on war. The existence of a nation having no credit, is always
precarious. The credit of England is the best. Their paper sells at par on the exchange of
Amsterdam, the moment any of it is offered, and they can command there any sum they please.
The reason is, that they never borrow, without establishing taxes for the payment of the interest,
and they never yet failed one day in that payment. The Emperor and Empress have good credit
enough. They use it little and have been ever punctual. This country cannot borrow at all there;
for though they always pay their interest within the year, yet it is often some months behind.
It is difficult to assign to our credit its exact station in this scale. They consider us as
the most certain nation on earth for the principal; but they see that we borrow of themselves
to pay the interest, so that this is only a conversion of their interest into principal. Our
paper, for this reason, sells for from four to eight per cent, below par, on the exchange,
and our loans are negotiated with the Patriots only. But the whole body of money-dealers, Patriot
and Stadtholderian, look forward to our new government with a great degree of partiality and
interest. They are disposed to have much confidence in it, and it was the prospect of its establishment,
which enabled us to set the loan of last year into motion again. They will attend steadfastly
to its first money operations. If these are injudiciously begun, correction, whenever they
shall be corrected, will come too late. Our borrowings will always be difficult and disadvantageous.
If they begin well, our credit will immediately take the first station. Equal provision for
the interest, adding to it a certain prospect for the principal, will give us a preference
to all nations, the English not excepted. The first act of the new government should be some
operation, whereby they may assume to themselves this station. Their European debts form a
proper subject for this. Digest the whole, public and private, Dutch, French, and Spanish,
into a table, showing the sum of interest due every year, and the portions of principal payable
the same year. Take the most certain branch of revenue, and one which shall suffice to pay
the interest, and leave such a surplus as may accomplish all the payments of the capital, as
terms somewhat short of those, at which they will become due. Let the surpluses of those years,
in which no reimbursement of principal falls, be applied to buy up our paper on the exchange
of Amsterdam, and thus anticipate the demands of principal. In this way our paper will be kept
up at par; and this alone will enable us to command in four and twenty hours, at any time,
on the exchange of Amsterdam, as many millions as that capital can produce. The same act which
makes this provision for the existing debts, should go on to open a loan to their whole amount;
the produce of that loan to be applied, as fast as received, to the payment of such parts of
the existing debts as admit of payment. The rate of interest to be as the government should
privately instruct their agent, because it must depend on the effect these measures would have
on the exchange. Probably it could be lowered from time to time. Honest and annual publications
of the payments made, will inspire confidence, while silence would conceal nothing from those
interested to know.

You will perceive by the comte rendu which I send you, that this country now calls seriously
for its interest at least. The nonpayment of this, hitherto, has done our credit little injury,
because the government here, saying nothing about it, the public have supposed they wished
to leave us at our ease as to the payment. It is now seen that they call for it, and they will
publish annually the effect of that call. A failure here, therefore, will have the same effect
on our credit hereafter, as a failure at Amsterdam. I consider it, then, as of a necessity
not to be dispensed with, that these calls be effectually provided for. If it shall be seen,
that the general provision before hinted at cannot be in time, then it is the present government
which should take on itself to borrow in Amsterdam what may be necessary. The new government
should by no means be left by the old to the necessity of borrowing a stiver, before it can
tax for its interest. This will be to destroy the credit of the new government in its birth.
And I am of opinion, that if the present Congress will add to the loan of a million (which
Mr. Adams and myself have proposed this year) what may be necessary for the French calls to
the year 1790, the money can be obtained at the usual disadvantage. Though I have not at this
moment received such authentic information from our bankers as I may communicate to Congress,
yet I know privately from one of them (Mr. Jacob Van Staphorst, who is here), that they had
on Hand a fortnight ago four hundred thousand florins, and the sale going on well. So that
the June interest, which had been in so critical a predicament, was already secured. If the
loan of a million on Mr. Adams's bonds of this year be ratified by Congress, the applications
of the money on hand may go on immediately, according to the statement I sent to Mr. Jay. One
article in this I must beg you to press on the treasury board; that is, an immediate order
for the payment of the three years' arrearages to the French officers. They were about holding
a meeting to take desperate measures on this subject, when I was called to Holland. I desired
them to be quiet till my return, and since my return I have pressed a further tranquillity
till July, by which time I have given them reason to hope I may have an answer from the treasury
board to my letters of March. Their ill humor can be contained no longer; and as I know no
reason why they may not be paid at that time, I shall have nothing to urge in our defence after
that.

*****

You remember the report, drawn by Governor Randolph, on the navigation of the Mississippi.
When I came to Europe, Mr. Thomson was so kind as to have me a copy of it made out. I lent
it to Dr. Franklin, and he mislaid it, so that it could never be found. Could you make interest
with him to have me another copy made, and send it to me? By Mr. Warville I send your pedometer.
To the loop at the bottom of it you must sew a tape, and at the other end of the tape a small
hook (such as we use under the name of hooks and eyes), cut a little hole in the bottom of
your left watch-pocket, pass the hook and tape through it, and down between the breeches and
drawers, and fix the hook on the edge of your knee-band, an inch from the knee-buckle; then
hook the instrument itself by its swivel-hook on the upper edge of the watch-pocket. Your tape
being well adjusted in length, your double steps will be exactly counted by the instrument,
the shortest hand pointing out the thousands, the flat hand the hundreds, and the long hand
the tens and units. Never turn the hands backward; indeed, it is best not to set them to any
given place, but to note the number they stand at when you begin to walk. The adjusting the
tape to its exact length is a critical business, and will cost you many trials. But once done,
it is done for ever. The best way is to have a small buckle fixed on the middle of the tape,
by which you can take it up, and let it out at pleasure. When you choose it should cease to
count, unhook it from the top of the watch-pocket, and let it fall down to the bottom of the
pocket.

Paris, May 4, 1788.

Sir,

I had the honor of addressing you in two letters of the 13th and 16th of March from Amsterdam,
and have since received Mr. Ramson's of February the 20th. I staid at Amsterdam about ten or
twelve days after the departure of Mr. Adams, in hopes of seeing the million of the last year
filled up. This, however, could not be accomplished on the spot. But the prospect was so good
as to have dissipated all fears; and since my return here, I learn (not officially from our
bankers, but) through a good channel, that they have received near four hundred thousand florins
since the date of the statement I sent you in my letter of March the 16th; and I presume we
need not fear the completion of that loan, which will provide for all our purposes of the year
1788, as stated in that paper. I hope, therefore, to receive from the treasury orders in conformity
thereto, that I may be able to proceed to the redemption of our captives. A provision for the
purposes of the years 1789 and 1790, as stated in the same paper, will depend on the ratification
by Congress of Mr. Adams's bonds of this year for another million of florins. But there arises
a new call from this government, for its interest at least. Their silence hitherto has made
it be believed in general, that they consented to the nonpayment of our interest to them, in
order to accommodate us. You will perceive in the seventy-fifth and seventy-sixth pages of
the compte rendu, which I have the honor to send you, that they call for this interest, and
will publish whether it be paid or not; and by No. 25, page eighty-one, that they count on
its regular receipt for the purposes of the year. These calls, for the first days of January,
1789 and 1790, will amount to about a million and a half of florins more; and if to be raised
by loan, it must be for two millions, as well to cover the expenses of the loan, as that loans
are not opened for fractions of millions. This publication seems to render a provision for
this interest as necessary as for that of Amsterdam.

I had taken measures to have it believed at Algiers, that our government withdrew its attention
from our captives there. This was to prepare their captors for the ransoming them at a reasonable
price. I find, however, that Captain O'Bryan is apprized that I have received some authority
on this subject. He writes me a cruel letter, supposing me the obstacle to their redemption.
Their own interest requires that I should leave them to think thus hardly of me. Were the views
of government communicated to them, they could not keep their own secret, and such a price
would be demanded for them, as Congress, probably, would think ought not to be given, lest
it should be the cause of involving thousands of others of their citizens in the same condition.
The moment I have money, the business shall be set in motion.

By a letter from Joseph Chiappe, our agent at Mogadore, I am notified of a declaration of the
Emperor of Morocco, that if the States General of the United Netherlands do not, before the
month of May, send him an ambassador, to let him know whether it is war or peace between them,
he will send one to them with five frigates; and that if their dispositions be unfavorable,
their frigates shall proceed to America to make prizes on the Dutch, and to sell them there.
It seems to depend on the Dutch, therefore, whether the Barbary powers shall learn the way
to our coasts, and whether we shall have to decide the question of the legality of selling
in our ports vessels taken from them. I informed you, in a former letter, of the declaration
made by the court of Spain to that of London, relative to its naval armament, and also of the
declaration of the Count de Montmorin to the Russian minister here on the same subject. I have
good information, that the court of Spain has itself made a similar and formal declaration
to the minister of Russia at Madrid. So that Russia is satisfied she is not the object. I doubt
whether the English are equally satisfied as to themselves. The season has hitherto prevented
any remarkable operation between the Turks and the two empires. The war, however, will probably
go on, and the season now admits of more important events. The Empress has engaged Commodore
Paul Jones in her service. He is to have the rank of rear-admiral, with a separate command,
and it is understood that he is in no case to be commanded. He will probably be opposed to
the Captain Pacha on the Black Sea. He received this invitation at Copenhagen, and as the season
for commencing the campaign, was too near to admit time for him to ask and await the permission
of Congress, he accepted the offer, only stipulating, that he should be always free to return
to the orders of Congress whenever called for, and that he should not be expected to bear arms
against France. He conceived, that the experience he should gain would enable him to be more
useful to the United States, should they ever have occasion for him. It has been understood,
that Congress had had it in contemplation to give him the grade of rear-admiral, from the date
of the action of the Serapis, and it is supposed, that such a mark of their approbation would
have a favorable influence on his fortune in the north. Copies of the letters which passed
between him and the Danish minister are herewith transmitted. I shall immediately represent
to Count Bernstorff, that the demand for our prizes can have no connection with a treaty of
commerce; that there is no reason why the claims of our seamen should await so distant and
uncertain an event; and press the settlement of this claim.

This country still pursues its line of peace. The ministry seem now all united in it; some
from a belief of their inability to carry on a war; others from a desire to arrange their internal
affairs, and improve their constitution. The differences between the King and parliaments threaten
a serious issue. Many symptoms indicate that the government has in contemplation some act of
highhanded authority. An extra number of printers have for several days been employed, the
apartment wherein they are at work being surrounded by a body of guards, who permit no body
either to come out or go in. The commanders of the provinces, civil and military, have been
ordered to be at their stations on a certain day of the ensuing week. They are accordingly
gone: so that the will of the King is probably to be announced through the whole kingdom on
the same day. The parliament of Paris, apprehending that some innovation is to be attempted,
which may take from them the opportunity of deciding on it after it shall be made known, came
last night to the resolution of which I have the honor to enclose you a manuscript copy. This
you will perceive to be, in effect, a declaration of rights. I am obliged to close here the
present letter, lest I should miss the opportunity of conveying it by a passenger who is to
call for it. Should the delay of the packet admit any continuation of these details, they shall
be the subject of another letter, to be forwarded by post. The gazettes of Leyden and France
accompany this.

Paris, May 17, 1788.

Dear Sir,

I have at length an opportunity of acknowledging the receipt of your favors of February, and
March the 14th, and congratulating you on your resurrection from the dead, among whom you had
been confidently entombed by the news-dealers of Paris. I am sorry that your first impressions
have been disturbed by matters of etiquette, where surely they should least have been expected
to occur. These disputes are the most insusceptible of determination, because they have no
foundation in reason. Arbitrary and senseless in their nature, they are arbitrarily decided
by every nation for itself. These decisions are meant to prevent disputes, but they produce
ten, where they prevent one. It would have been better, therefore, in a new country, to have
excluded etiquette altogether; or if it must be admitted in some form or other, to have made
it depend on some circumstance founded in nature, such as the age or station of the parties.
However, you have got over all this, and I am in hopes have been able to make up a society
suited to your own dispositions. Your situation will doubtless be improved by the adoption
of the new constitution, which I hope will have taken place before you receive this. I see
in this instrument a great deal of good. The consolidation of our government, a just representation,
an administration of some permanence, and other features of great value, will be gained by
it. There are, indeed, some faults, which revolted me a good deal in the first moment; but
we must be contented to travel on towards perfection, step by step. We must be contented with
the ground which this constitution will gain for us, and hope that a favorable moment will
come for correcting what is amiss in it. I view in the same light the innovations making here.
The new organization of the judiciary department is undoubtedly for the better. The reformation
of the criminal code is an immense step taken towards good. The composition of the Plenary
court is indeed vicious in the extreme; but the basis of that court may be retained, and its
composition changed. Make of it a representative of the people, by composing it of members
sent from the Provincial Assemblies, and it becomes a valuable member of the constitution.
But it is said, the court will not consent to do this: the court, however, has consented to
call the States General, who will consider the Plenary court but as a canvass for them to work
on. The public mind is manifestly advancing on the abusive prerogatives of their governors,
and bearing them down. No force in the government can withstand this, in the long run. Courtiers
had rather give up power than pleasures; they will barter, therefore, the usurped prerogatives
of the King for the money of the people. This is the agent by which modern nations will recover
their rights. I sincerely wish that, in this country, they may be contented with a peaceable
and passive opposition. At this moment we are not sure of this; though as yet it is difficult
to say what form the opposition will take. It is a comfortable circumstance, that their neighboring
enemy is under the administration of a minister disposed to keep the peace. Engage in war who
will, may my country long continue your peaceful residence, and merit your good offices with
that nation, whose affections it is their duty and interest to cultivate.

Paris, May 23,1788.

Sir,

When I wrote my letter of the 4th instant, I had no reason to doubt that a packet would have
sailed on the 10th, according to the established order. The passengers had all, except one,
gone down to Havre in this expectation. However, none has sailed, and perhaps none will sail,
as I think the suppression of the packets is one of the economies in contemplation. An American
merchant, concerned in the commerce of the whale-oil, proposed to government to despatch his
ships from Havre and Boston at stated periods, and to take on board the French courier and
mail, and the proposition has been well enough received. I avail myself of a merchant vessel
going from Havre, to write the present.

In my letter of the 4th, I stated to you the symptoms which indicated that government had some
great stroke of authority in contemplation. That night they sent guards to seize Monsieur d'Epremenil
and Monsieur Goiskind, two members of parliament, in their houses. They escaped, and took sanctuary
in the Palais (or parliament house). The parliament assembled itself extraordinarily, summoned
the Dukes and Peers specially, and came to the resolution of the 5th, which they sent to Versailles
by deputies, determined not to leave the palace till they received an answer. In the course
of that night a battalion of guards surrounded the house. The two members were taken by the
officers from among their fellows, and sent off to prison, the one to Lyons, the other (d'Epremenil),
the most obnoxious, to an island in the Mediterranean. The parliament then separated. On the
8th, a bed of justice was held at Versailles, wherein were enregistered the six ordinances
which had been passed in Council on the 1st of May, and which I now send you. They were in
like manner enregistered in beds of justice, on the same day, in nearly all the parliaments
of the kingdom. By these ordinances, 1. The criminal law is reformed, by abolishing examination
on the sellette, which, like our holding up the hand at the bar, remained a stigma on the party,
though innocent; by substituting an oath, instead of torture, on the question préalable, which
is used after condemnation, to make the prisoner discover his accomplices; (the torture, abolished
in 1780, was on the question préparatoire, previous to judgment, in order to make the prisoner
accuse himself;) by allowing counsel to the prisoner for his defence; obliging the judges to
specify in their judgments the offence for which he is condemned; and respiting execution a
month, except in the case of sedition. This reformation is unquestionably good, and within
the ordinary legislative powers of the crown. That it should remain to be made at this day,
proves that the monarch is the last person in his kingdom who yields to the progress of philanthropy
and civilization. 2. The organization of the whole judiciary department is changed, by the
institution of subordinate jurisdictions, the taking from the parliaments the cognizance of
all causes of less value than twenty thousand livres, reducing their numbers to about a fourth,
and suppressing a number of special courts. Even this would be a great improvement, if it did
not imply that the King is the only person in this nation, who has any rights or any power.
3. The right of registering the laws is taken from the parliaments, and transferred to a Plenary
court, created by the King. This last is the measure most obnoxious to all persons. Though
the members are to be for life, yet a great proportion of them are from descriptions of men
always candidates for the royal favor in other lines. As yet, the general consternation has
not sufficiently passed over, to say whether the matter will end here. I send you some papers,
which indicate symptoms of resistance. These are the resolution of the Noblesse of Brittany,
the declaration of the Advocate General of Provence, which is said to express the spirit of
that province; and the Arrêté of the Châtelet, which is the hustings-court of the city of Paris.
Their refusal to act under the new character assigned them, and the suspension of their principal
functions, are very embarrassing. The clamors this will excite, and the disorders it may admit,
will be loud, and near to the royal ear and person. The parliamentary fragments permitted to
remain, have already some of them refused, and probably all will refuse, to act under that
form. The assembly of the clergy which happens to be sitting, have addressed the King to call
the States General immediately. Of the Dukes and Peers (thirty-eight in number), nearly half
are either minors or superannuated; two thirds of the acting half seem disposed to avoid taking
a part; the rest, about eight or nine, have refused, by letters to the King, to act in the
new courts. A proposition excited among the Dukes and Peers, to assemble and address the King
for a modification of the Plenary court, seems to show that the government would be willing
to compromise on that head. It has been prevented by the Dukes and Peers in opposition, because
they suppose that no modification to be made by the government will give to that body the form
they desire, which is that of a representative of the nation. They foresee that if the government
is forced to this, they will call them, as nearly as they can, in the ancient forms; in which
case, less good will be to be expected from them. But they hope they may be got to concur in
a declaration of rights, at least, so that the nation may be acknowledged to have some fundamental
rights, not alterable by their ordinary legislature, and that this may form a ground-work for
future improvements. These seem to be the views of the most enlightened and disinterested characters
of the opposition. But they may be frustrated by the nation's making no cry at all, or by a
hasty and premature appeal to arms. There is neither head nor body in the nation, to promise
a successful opposition to two hundred thousand regular troops. Some think the army could not
be depended on by the government; but the breaking men to military discipline, is breaking
their spirits to principles of passive obedience. A firm, but quiet opposition, will be the
most likely to succeed. Whatever turn this crisis takes, a revolution in their constitution
seems inevitable, unless foreign war supervene, to suspend the present contest. And a foreign
war they will avoid, if possible, from an inability to get money. The loan of one hundred and
twenty millions, of the present year, is filled up by such subscriptions as may be relied on.
But that of eighty millions, proposed for the next year, cannot be filled up, in the actual
situation of things.

The Austrians have been successful in an attack upon Schabatz, intended as a preliminary to
that of Belgrade. In that on Dubitza, another town in the neighborhood of Belgrade, they have
been repulsed, and as is suspected, with considerable loss. It is still supposed the Russian
fleet will go into the Mediterranean, though it will be much retarded by the refusal of the
English government to permit its sailors to engage in the voyage. Sweden and Denmark are arming
from eight to twelve ships of the line each. The English and Dutch treaty you will find in
the Leyden gazettes of May the 9th and 13th. That between England and Prussia is supposed to
be stationary. Monsieur de St. Priest, the ambassador from this court to the Hague, has either
gone, or is on the point of going. The Emperor of Morocco has declared war against England.
I enclose you his orders in our favor, on that occasion. England sends a squadron to the Mediterranean
for the protection of her commerce, and she is reinforcing her possessions in the two Indies.
France is expecting the arrival of an embassy from Tippoo Saib, is sending some regiments to
the East Indies, and a fleet of evolution into the Atlantic. Seven ships of the line and several
frigates, sailed from Cadiz on the 22nd of April, destined to perform evolutions off the Western
Islands, as the Spaniards say, but really to their American possessions, as is suspected. Thus
the several powers are by little and little, taking the position of war, without an immediate
intention of waging it. But that the present ill humor will finally end in war, is doubted
by nobody.

In my letter of February the 5th, I had the honor of informing you of the discontent produced
by our Arrêt of December the 29th, among the merchants of this country, and of the deputations
from the chambers of commerce to the minister, on that subject. The articles attacked, were
the privileges on the sale of our ships, and the entrepôt for codfish. The former I knew to
be valuable: the latter I supposed not so; because during the whole of the time we have had
four free ports in this kingdom, we have never used them for the smuggling of fish. I concluded,
therefore, the ports of entrepôt would not be used for that purpose. I saw that the ministers
would sacrifice something to quiet the merchants, and was glad to save the valuable article
relative to our ships, by abandoning the useless one for our codfish. It was settled, therefore,
in our conferences, that an Arrêt should be passed, abridging the former one only as to the
entrepot of codfish. I was in Holland when the Arrêt came out; and did not get a copy of it
till yesterday. Surprised to find that fish-oil was thereby also excluded from the entrepot,
I have been to-day to make some inquiry into the cause; and from what I can learn, I conclude
it must have been a mere error in the clerk who formed the Arrêt, and that it escaped attention
on its passage. The entrepôt of whale-oil was not objected to by a single deputy at the conferences,
and the excluding it is contrary to the spirit of encouragement the ministers have shown a
disposition to give. I trust, therefore, I may get it altered on the first occasion which occurs,
and I believe one will soon occur. In the mean time, we do not store a single drop for re-exportation,
as all which comes here is needed for the consumption of this country; which will alone, according
to appearances, become so considerable as to require all we can produce.

By a letter of the 8th instant, from our bankers, I learn that they had disposed of bonds enough
to pay our June interest, and to replace the temporary advances made by Mr. Grand, and from
a fund placed here by the State of Virginia. I have desired them, accordingly, to replace these
monies, which had been lent for the moment only, and in confidence of immediate repayment.
They add, that the payment of the June interest and the news from America, will, as they trust,
enable them to place the remaining bonds of the last year's million. I suppose, indeed, that
there is no doubt of it, and that none would have been expressed, if those two houses could
draw better together than they do. In the mean time, I hope the treasury board will send an
order for so much as may be necessary for executing the purposes of Congress, as to our captives
at Algiers.

I send you herewith, a Mémoire of Monsieur Caseaux, whose name is familiar on the journals
of Congress. He prepared it to be delivered to the King, but I believe he will think better,
and not deliver it. The gazettes of France and Leyden accompany this.

I have the honor to be, Sir, your most obedient and most humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

P. S. May 27, 1788. I have kept my letter open to the moment of Mr. Warville's departure (he
being the bearer of it), that I might add any new incidents that should occur. The refusal
of the Châtelet and Grande Chambre of Paris to act in the new character assigned them, continues.
Many of the grandes bailliages accept, some conditionally, some fully. This will facilitate
greatly the measures of government, and may possibly give them a favorable issue. The parliament
of Toulouse, considering the edicts as nullities, went on with their business. They have been
exiled in consequence. Monsieur de St. Priest left Paris for the Hague, on the 23rd. I mention
this fact, because it denotes the acquiescence of this government in the late revolution there.
A second division of a Spanish fleet will put to sea soon. Its destination not declared. Sweden
is arming to a greater extent than was at first supposed. From twelve so sixteen sail of the
line are spoken of, on good grounds, Denmark, for her own security, must arm in proportion
to this. T. J.

LETTER CXXXVII.--TO JOHN BROWN, May 26,1788

TO JOHN BROWN.

Paris, May 26,1788.

Dear Sir,

It was with great pleasure I saw your name on the roll of Delegates, but I did not know you
had actually come onto New-York, till Mr. Paradise informed me of it. Your removal from Carolina
to Kentucky was not an indifferent event to me. I wish to see that country in the hands of
people well disposed, who know the value of the connection between that and the maritime States,
and who wish to cultivate it. I consider their happiness as bound up together, and that every
measure should be taken, which may draw the bands of union tighter. It will be an efficacious
one to receive them into Congress, as I perceive they are about to desire to this be added
an honest and disinterested conduct in Congress, as to every thing relating to them, we may
hope for a perfect harmony. The navigation of the Mississippi was, perhaps, the strongest trial
to which the justice of the federal government could be put. If ever they thought wrong about
it, I trust they have got to rights. I should think it proper for the western country to defer
pushing their right to that navigation to extremity, as long as they can do without it, tolerably;
but that the moment it becomes absolutely necessary for them, it will become the duty of the
maritime states to push it to every extremity, to which they would their own right of navigating
the Chesapeake, the Delaware, the Hudson, or any other water. A time of peace will not be the
surest for obtaining this object. Those, therefore, who have influence in the new country,
would act wisely, to endeavor to keep things quiet till the western parts of Europe shall be
engaged in war. Notwithstanding the aversion of the courts of London and Versailles to war,
it is not certain that some incident may not engage them in it. England, France, Spain, Russia,
Sweden, and Denmark will all have fleets at sea, or ready to put to sea immediately. Who can
answer for the prudence of all their officers? War is their interest. Even their courts are
pacific from impotence only, not from disposition. I wish to Heaven that our new government
may see the importance of putting themselves immediately into a respectable position. To make
provision for the speedy payment of their foreign debts, will be the first operation necessary.
This will give them credit. A concomitant one should be, magazines and manufactures of arms.
This country is at present in a crisis of very uncertain issue. I am in hopes it will be a
favorable one to the rights and happiness of the people; and that this will take place quietly.
Small changes in the late regulations will render them wholly good. The campaign opens between
the Turks and the two empires, with an aspect rather favorable to the former. The Russians
seem not yet thawed from the winter's torpitude. They have no army yet in motion: and the Emperor
has been worsted in two thirds of the small actions, which they have had as yet. He is said
to be rather retiring. I do not think, however, that the success of the Turks in the partisan
affairs which have taken place, can authorize us to presume, that they will be superior also
in great decisions. Their want of discipline and skill in military manuvres is of little consequence
in small engagements, and of great in larger ones. Their grand army was at Adrianople by the
last accounts, and to get from thence to Belgrade will require a month. It will be that time
at least then, before we can have any very interesting news from them. In the mean time, the
plague rages at Constantinople to a terrible degree. I cannot think but that it would be desirable
to all commercial nations, to have that nation and all its dependencies driven from the sea-coast,
into the interior parts of Asia and Africa. What a field would, thus be restored to commerce!
The finest parts of the old world are now dead, in a great degree, to commerce, to arts, to
science, and to society. Greece, Syria, Egypt, and the northern coast of Africa, constituted
the whole world almost for the Romans, and to us they are scarcely known, scarcely accessible
at all. The present summer will enable us to judge, what turn this contest will take. I am
greatly anxious to hear that nine States accept our new constitution. We must be contented
to accept of its good, and to cure what is evil in it hereafter. It seems necessary for our
happiness at home; I am sure it is so for our respectability abroad.

Paris, May 27, 1788.

Dear Sir,

Your favors of April the 14th and 29th, and May the 8th, have lately come to hand. That of
January the 29th, by M. de Moinedo, had been left here during my absence on a journey to Amsterdam.
That gentleman had gone, as I presume, before my return, from my being unable to learn any
thing of him.

*****

With respect to the Isthmus of Panama, I am assured by Burgoine (who would not chose to be
named, however), that a survey was made, that a canal appeared very practicable, and that the
idea was suppressed for political reasons altogether. He has seen and minutely examined the
report. This report is to me a vast desideratum, for reasons political and philosophical. I
cannot help suspecting the Spanish squadrons to be gone to South America, and that some disturbances
have been excited there by the British. The court of Madrid may suppose we would not see this
with an unwilling eye. This may be true as to the uninformed part of our people: but those
who look into futurity farther than the present moment or age, and who combine well what is,
with what is to be, must see that our interests, well understood, and our wishes are, that
Spain shall (not for ever, but) very long retain her possessions in that quarter; and that
her views and ours must, in a good degree, and for a long time, concur. It is said in our gazettes,
that the Spaniards have sunk one of our boats on the Mississippi, and that our people retaliated
on one of theirs. But my letters, not mentioning this fact, have made me hope it is not true,
in which hope your letter confirms me. There are now one hundred thousand inhabitants in Kentucky.
They have accepted the offer of independence, on the terms proposed by Virginia, and they have
decided that their independent government shall begin on the first day of the next year. In
the mean time, they claim admittance into Congress. Georgia has ceded her western territory
to the United States, to take place with the commencement of the new federal government. I
do not know the boundaries. There has been some dispute of etiquette with the new French minister,
which has disgusted him.

The following is a state of the progress and prospects of the new plan of government.

*****

The conduct of Massachusetts has been noble. She accepted the constitution, but voted that
it should stand as a perpetual instruction to her Delegates, to endeavor to obtain such and
such reformations; and the minority, though very strong both in numbers and abilities, declared
viritim and seriatim, that acknowledging the principle that the majority must give the law,
they would now support the new constitution with their tongues, and with their blood, if necessary.
I was much pleased with many and essential parts of this instrument, from the beginning. But
I thought I saw in it many faults, great and small. What I have read and reflected, has brought
me over from several of my objections, of the first moment, and to acquiesce under some others.
Two only remain, of essential consideration, to wit, the want of a bill of rights, and the
expunging the principle of necessary rotation in the offices of President and Senator. At first,
I wished that when nine States should have accepted the constitution, so as to insure us what
is good in it, the other four might hold off till the want of the bill of rights at least,
might be supplied. But I am now convinced that the plan of Massachusetts is the best, that
is, to accept and to amend afterwards. If the States which were to decide after her, should
all do the same, it is impossible but they must obtain the essential amendments. It will be
more difficult, if we lose this instrument, to recover what is good in it, than to correct
what is bad, after we shall have adopted it. It has, therefore, my hearty prayers, and I wait
with anxiety for news of the votes of Maryland, South Carolina, and Virginia. There is no doubt
that General Washington will accept the presidentship; though he is silent on the subject.
He would not be chosen to the Virginia convention. A riot has taken place in New York, which
I will state to you from an eye-witness. It has long been a practice with the surgeons of that
city, to steal from the grave bodies recently buried. A citizen had lost his wife: he went,
the first or second evening after her burial, to pay a visit to her grave.. He found that it
had been disturbed, and suspected from what quarter. He found means to be admitted to the anatomical
lecture of that day, and on his entering the room, saw the body of his wife, naked and under
dissection. He raised the people immediately. The body, in the mean time, was secreted. They
entered into and searched the houses of the physicians whom they most suspected, but found
nothing. One of them however more guilty or more timid than the rest, took asylum in the prison.
The mob considered this an acknowledgment of guilt. They attacked the prison. The Governor
ordered militia to protect the culprit, and suppress the mob. The militia, thinking the mob
had just provocation, refused to turn out. Hereupon the people of more reflection, thinking
it more dangerous that even a guilty person should be punished without the forms of law, than
that he should escape, armed themselves, and went to protect the physician. They were received
by the mob with a volley of stones, which wounded several of them. They hereupon fired on the
mob and killed four. By this time, they received a reinforcement of other citizens of the militia
horse, the appearance of which, in the critical moment, dispersed the mob. So ended this chapter
of history, which I have detailed to you, because it may be represented as a political riot,
when politics had nothing to do with it. Mr. Jay and Baron Steuben were both grievously wounded
in the head by stones. The former still kept his bed, and the latter his room, when the packet
sailed, which was the 24th of April.

(Private.) Paris, May 27, 1788.

Dear Sir,

The change which is likely to take place in the form of our government, seems to render it
proper, that, during the existence of the present government, an article should be mentioned
which concerns me personally. Uncertain, however, how far Congress may have decided to do business
when so near the close of their administration; less capable than those on the spot of foreseeing
the character of the new government; and not fully confiding in my own judgment, where it is
so liable to be seduced by feeling, I take the liberty of asking your friendly counsel, and
that of my friend Mr. Madison, and of referring the matter to your judgments and discretion.

Mr. Barclay when in Europe was authorized to settle all the European accounts of the United
States: he settled those of Dr. Franklin and Mr. Adams, and it was intended between us, that
he should settle mine. But as what may be done at any time is often put off to the last, this
settlement had been made to give way to others, and that of Beaumarchais being pressed on Mr.
Barclay before his departure for Morocco, and having long retarded his departure, it was agreed
that my affair should await his return from that mission: you know the circumstances which
prevented his return to Paris after that mission was finished. My account is therefore unsettled,
but I have no anxiety on any article of it, except one, that is, the outfit. This consists
of, 1. clothes; 2. carriage and horses; 3. household furniture. When Congress made their first
appointments of ministers to be resident in Europe, I have understood (for I was not then in
Congress) that they allowed them all their expenses, and a fixed sum over and above for their
time. Among their expenses, was necessarily understood their outfit. Afterwards they thought
proper to give them fixed salaries of eleven thousand one hundred and eleven dollars and one
ninth a year; and again, by a resolution of May the 6th and 8th, 1784, the 'salaries' of their
ministers at foreign courts were reduced to nine thousand dollars, to take place on the 1st
of August ensuing. On the 7th of May I was appointed, in addition to Mr. Adams and Dr. Franklin,
for the negotiation of treaties of commerce; but this appointment being temporary, for two
years only, and not as of a resident minister, the article of outfit did not come into question.
I asked an advance of six months' salary, that I might be in cash to meet the first expenses;
which was ordered. The year following, I was appointed to succeed Dr. Franklin at this court.
This was the first appointment of a minister resident, since the original ones, under which
all expenses were to be paid. So much of the ancient regulation, as respected annual expenses,
had been altered to a sum certain; so much of it as respected first expenses, or outfit, remained
unaltered; and I might therefore expect, that the actual expenses for outfit were to be paid.
When I prepared my account for settlement with Mr. Barclay, I began a detail of the articles
of clothes, carriage, horses, and household furniture. I found that they were numerous, minute,
and incapable, from their nature, of being vouched; and often entered in my memorandum-book
under a general head only, so that I could not specify them. I found they would exceed a year's
salary. Supposing, therefore, that, mine being the first case, Congress would make a precedent
of it, and prefer a sum fixed for the outfit, as well as the salary, I have charged it in my
account at a year's salary; presuming there can be no question that an outfit is a reasonable
charge. It is the usage here (and I suppose at all courts), that a minister resident, shall
establish his house in the first instant. If this is to be done out of his salary, he will
be a twelvemonth at least without a copper to live on. It is the universal practice, therefore,
of all nations, to allow the outfit as a separate article from the salary. I have inquired
here into the usual amount of it. I find that, sometimes, the sovereign pays the actual cost.
This is particularly the case of the Sardinian ambassador now coming here, who is to provide
a service of plate, and every article of furniture, and other matters of first expense, to
be paid for by his court. In other instances, they give a service of plate, and a fixed sum
for all other articles, which fixed sum is in no case lower than a year's salary.

I desire no service of plate, having no ambition for splendor. My furniture, carriage, and
apparel are all plain, yet they have cost me more than a year's salary. I suppose that in every
country, and in every condition of life, a year's expense would be found a moderate measure
for the furniture of a man's house. It is not more certain to me, that the sun will rise to-morrow,
than that our government must allow the outfit, on their future appointment of foreign ministers;
and it would be hard on me, so to stand between the discontinuance of a former rule, and institution
of a future one, as to have the benefit of neither. I know, I have so long known the character
of our federal head, in its present form, that I have the most unlimited confidence in the
justice of its decisions. I think I am so far known to many of the present Congress, as that
I may be cleared of all views of making money out of any public employment, or of desiring
any thing beyond actual and decent expenses, proportioned to the station in which they have
been pleased to place me, and to the respect they would wish to see attached to it. It would
seem right, that they should decide the claims of those who have acted under their administration,
and their pretermission of any article, might amount to a disallowance of it in the opinion
of the new government. It would be painful to me to meet that government with a claim under
this kind of cloud, and to pass it in review before their several Houses of legislation, and
boards of administration, to whom I shall be unknown; and being for money actually expended,
it would be too inconvenient to me to relinquish it in silence. I anxiously ask it, therefore,
to be decided on by Congress before they go out of office, if it be not out of the line of
proceeding they may have chalked out for themselves. If it be against their inclination to
determine it, would it be agreeable to them to refer it to the new government, by some resolution,
which should show they have not meant to disallow it, by passing it over? Not knowing the circumstances
under which Congress may exist and act at the moment you shall receive this, I am unable to
judge what should be done on this subject. It is therefore that I ask the aid of your friendship
and that of Mr. Madison, that you will do for me in this regard, what you think it is right
should be done, and what it would be right for me to do, were I on the spot, or were I apprized
of all existing circumstances. Indeed, were you two to think my claim an improper one, I would
wish it to be suppressed, as I have so much confidence in your judgment, that I should suspect
my own in any case where it varied from yours, and more especially, in one where it is liable
to be warped by feeling.

Paris, May 28, 1788.

Dear Sir,

The enclosed letter for Mr. Jay, being of a private nature. I have thought it better to put
it under your cover, lest it might be opened by some of his clerks, in the case of his absence.
But I enclose a press copy of it for yourself, as you will perceive the subject of it referred
to you, as well as to him. I ask your aid in it so far as you think right, and to have done
what you think right. If you will now be so good as to cast your eye over the copy enclosed,
what follows the present sentence, will be some details, supplementary to that only, necessary
for your information, but not proper for me to state to Mr. Jay.

      [*  It will be seen that a few words of this letter are in
          cipher. It is published, however, as written, because
          enough of it is literal to interest the reader, to whom
          also a specimen of the cipher, used by the Author, may
          not be unacceptable.]

378.227.1247. though appointed a minister resident at the court of 514. he never was 663. in
that character. He was continually passing from 1042. to 514. and 514. to 1042., so that he
had no occasion to establish a household at either. Accordingly, he staid principally in furnished
lodgings. Of all our ministers, he had the least occasion for an outfit, and I suppose spent
almost nothing on that article. He was of a disposition, too, to restrain himself within any
limits of expense whatever, and it suited his recluse turn, which is, to avoid society. Should
he judge of what others should do, by what he did, it would be an improper criterion. He was
in Europe as a voyageur only, and it was while the salary was five hundred guineas more than
at present.

145.1267.1046.7. he came over, when, instead of outfit and salary, all expenses were paid.
Of rigorous honesty, and careless of appearances, he lived for a considerable time as an economical
private individual. After he was fixed at 812.141. and the salary at a sum certain, he continued
his economical style, till, out of the difference between his expenses and his salary, he could
purchase furniture for his house. This was the easier, as the salary was at two thousand five
hundred guineas then. He was obliged, too, to be passing between 1042. and 812.141. so as to
avoid any regular current of expenses. When he established himself, his pecuniary affairs were
under the direction of 964.814.7.101.994., one of the most estimable characters on earth, and
the most attentive and honorable economists. Neither had a wish to lay up a copper, but both
wished to make both ends meet. I suspected, however, from an expression dropped in conversation,
that they were not able to do this, and that a deficit in their accounts appeared in their
winding up. If this conjecture be true, it is a proof that the salary, so far from admitting
savings, is unequal to a very plain style of life; for such was theirs. I presume Congress
will be asked to allow it, and it is evident to me, from what I saw while in 1093. that it
ought to be done, as they did not expend a shilling which should have been avoided. Would it
be more eligible to set the example of making good a deficit, or to give him an outfit, which
will cover it? The impossibility of living on the sum allowed, respectably, was the true cause
of his insisting on his recall. 821.267.1292. He came over while all expenses were paid. He
rented a house with standing furniture, such as tables, chairs, presses, &c., and bought all
other necessaries. The latter were charged in his account; the former was included in the article
of house-rent, and paid during the whole time of his stay here; and as the established rate
of hire for furniture is from thirty to forty per cent, per annum, the standing furniture must
have been paid for three times over, during the eight years he staid here. His salary was two
thousand five hundred guineas. When Congress reduced it to less than two thousand, he refused
to accede to it, asked his recall, and insisted that whenever they chose to alter the conditions
on which he came out, if he did not approve of it, they ought to replace him in America on
the old conditions. He lived plain, but as decently as his salary would allow. He saved nothing,
but avoided debt. He knew he could not do this on the reduced salary, and therefore asked his
recall with decision.

To 935.145. succeeded. He had established a certain style of living. The same was expected
from 1214. and there were five hundred guineas a year less to do it on. It has been aimed at,
however, as far as was practicable. This rendered it constantly necessary to step neither to
the right nor to the left, to incur any expense which could possibly be avoided, and it called
for an almost womanly attention to the details of the household, equally perplexing, disgusting,
and inconsistent with business. You will be sensible, that, in this situation, no savings could
be made for reimbursing the half year's salary, ordered to be advanced under the former commission,
and more than as much again, which was unavoidably so applied, without order, for the purchase
of the outfit. The reason of the thing, the usage of all nations, the usage of our own, by
paying all expenses of preceding ministers, which gave them the outfit, as far as their circumstances
appeared to them to render it necessary, have made me take for granted all along, that it would
not be refused to me: nor should I have mentioned it now, but that the administration is passing
into other hands, and more complicated forms. It would be disagreeable to me to be presented
to them, in the first instance, as a suitor. Men come into business at first with visionary
principles. It is practice alone, which can correct and conform them to the actual current
of affairs. In the mean time, those to whom their errors were first applied, have been their
victims. The government may take up the project of appointing foreign ministers without outfits,
and they may ruin two or three individuals, before they find that that article is just as indispensable
as the salary. They must then fall into the current of general usage, which has become general,
only because experience has established its necessity. Upon the whole, be so good as to reflect
on it, and to do, not what your friendship to me, but your opinion of what is right, shall dictate.

Paris, May 23, 1788.

Dear Peter,

The preceding letter [* For the letter referred to, see ante, LXXIV.] was written at its date,
and I supposed you in possession of it, when your letters of December the 10th, 1787, and March
the 18th, 1788, told me otherwise. Still I supposed it on its way to you, when a few days ago,
having occasion to look among some papers in the drawer, where my letters are usually put away,
till an opportunity of sending them occurs, I found that this letter had slipped among them,
so that it had never been forwarded. I am sorry for it, on account of the remarks relative
to the Spanish language only. Apply to that with all the assiduity you can. That language and
the English covering nearly the whole face of America, they should be well known to every inhabitant,
who means to look beyond the limits of his farm. I like well the distribution of your time,
mentioned in your letter of March the 18th; and the counsels of Mr. Wythe, so kindly extended
to you, leave it necessary for me to add nothing of that kind. Be assiduous in learning, take
much exercise for your health, and practise much virtue. Beyond these, we want nothing but
physical necessaries, and they are easily obtained. My daughters are well, and join me in love
to yourself, your mother, brothers, and sisters.

I am, with very sincere esteem, Dear Peter, your affectionate

friend,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXLII.--TO THE COMTE DE BERNSTORFF, June 19, 1788

TO THE COMTE DE BERNSTORFF.

Paris, June 19, 1788.

I had the honor of addressing your Excellency, by Admiral Paul Jones, on the 21st of January,
on the subject of the prizes taken under his command during the late war, and sent into Bergen.
I communicated at the same time a copy of the powers which the Congress of the United States
of America had been pleased to confide to me therein, having previously shown the original
to the Baron de Blome, Envoy Extraordinary of his Majesty, the King of Denmark, at this court;
and I furnished, at the same time, to Admiral Paul Jones, such authority as I was empowered
to delegate, for the arrangement of this affair. That officer has transmitted me a copy of
your Excellency's letter to him of the 4th of April, wherein you are pleased to observe, that
the want of full powers on his part was an invincible obstacle to the definitive discussion
of this claim with him, and to express your dispositions to institute a settlement at this
place. Always assured of the justice and honor of the court of Denmark, and encouraged by the
particular readiness of your Excellency to settle and remove this difficulty from between the
two nations, I take the liberty of recalling your attention to it. The place of negotiation
proposed by your Excellency, meets no objection from us, and it removes, at the same time,
that which the want of full powers in Admiral Paul Jones had produced in your mind. These full
powers Congress have been pleased to honor me with. The arrangement taken between the person
to be charged with your full powers and myself, will be final and conclusive. You are pleased
to express a willingness to treat at the same time on the subjects of amity and commerce. The
powers formerly communicated on our part, were given to Mr. Adams, Doctor Franklin, and myself,
for a limited term only. That term has expired, and the other two gentlemen returned to America;
so that no person is commissioned at this moment to renew those conferences. I may safely,
however, assure your Excellency, that the same friendly dispositions still continue, and the
same desire of facilitating and encouraging a commerce between the two nations, which produced
the former appointment. But our nation is, at this time, proposing a change in the organization
of its government. For this change to be agreed to by all the members of the Union, the new
administration chosen and brought into activity, their domestic matters arranged, which will
require their first attention, their foreign system afterwards decided on and carried into
full execution, will require very considerable length of time. To place under the same delay
the private claims which I have the honor to present to your Excellency, would be hard on the
persons interested: because these claims have no connection with the system of commercial connection,
which may be established between the two nations, nor with the particular form of our administration.
The justice due to them is complete, and the present administration as competent to final settlement
as any future one will be, should a future change take place. These individuals have already
lingered nine years in expectation of their hard and perilous earnings. Time lessens their
numbers continually, disperses their representatives, weakens the evidence of their right,
and renders more and more impracticable his Majesty's dispositions to repair the private injury,
to which public circumstances constrained him. These considerations, the just and honorable
intentions of your Excellency, and the assurances you give us in your letter, that no delay
is wished on your part, give me strong hopes that we may speedily obtain that final arrangement,
which express instructions render it my duty to urge. I have the honor, therefore, of agreeing
with your Excellency, that the settlement of this matter, formerly begun at Paris, shall be
continued there; and to ask that you will be pleased to give powers and instructions for this
purpose to such persons as you shall think proper, and in such full form as may prevent those
delays, to which the distance between Copenhagen and Paris might otherwise expose us.

Paris, June 20, 1788.

Sir,

Having had the honor of mentioning to your Excellency the wish of Congress, that certain changes
should be made in the articles for a consular convention, which had been sent to them, I have
now that, conformably to the desire you expressed, of giving a general idea of the alterations
to be proposed.

The fourth article gives to the consuls the immunities of the law of nations. It has been understood,
however, that the laws of France do not admit of this; and that it might be desirable to expunge
this article. In this we are ready to concur, as in every other case, where an article might
call for changes in the established laws, either inconvenient or disagreeable.

After establishing in favor of consuls, the general immunities of the law of nations, one consequence
of which would have been, that they could not have been called upon to give testimony in courts
of justice, the fifth article requires, that after the observance of certain formalities, which
imply very high respect, they shall make a declaration; but in their own houses [chez eux]
as may be pretended, if not justly inferred, from the expressions in the article. But our laws
require, indispensably, a personal examination of witnesses in the presence of the parties,
of their counsel, the jury, and judges, each of whom has a right to ask of them all questions
pertinent to the fact. The first and highest officers of our government are obliged to appear
personally to the order of a court, to give evidence. The court takes care that they are treated
with respect. It is proposed, therefore, to omit this article for these particular reasons,
as well as for the general one, that the fourth being expunged, this, which was but an exception
to that, falls of course.

The seventh, eighth, tenth, and fourteenth articles extend their pre-eminences far beyond those,
which the laws of nations would have given. These articles require that the declarations made
in the presence of consuls, and certified by them, shall be received in evidence in all courts
whatever: and, in some instances, give to their certificates a credibility which excludes all
other testimony. The cases are rare, in which our laws admit written evidence of facts; and
such evidence, when admitted, must have been given in the presence of both parties, and must
contain the answers to all the pertinent questions, which they may have desired to ask of the
witness: and to no evidence, of whatever nature, written or oral, do our laws give so high
credit, as to exclude all counter-proof. These principles are of such ancient foundation in
our system of jurisprudence, and are so much valued and venerated by our citizens, that perhaps
it would be impossible to execute articles, which should contravene them, nor is it imagined
that these stipulations can be so interesting to this country, as to balance the inconvenience
and hazard of such an innovation with us. Perhaps it might be found, that the laws of both
countries require a modification of this article; as it is inconceivable that the certificate
of an American consul in France could be permitted by one of its courts to establish a fact,
the falsehood of which should be notorious to the court itself.

The eighth article gives to the consuls of either nation a jurisdiction, in certain cases,
over foreigners of any other. On a dispute arising in France, between an American and a Spaniard
or an Englishman, it would not be fair to abandon the Spaniard or Englishman to an American
consul. On the contrary, the territorial judge, as neutral, would seem to be the most impartial.
Probably, therefore, it will be thought convenient for both parties, to correct this stipulation.

A dispute arising between two subjects of France, the one being in France and the other in
the United States, the regular tribunals of France would seem entitled to a preference of jurisdiction.
Yet the twelfth article gives it to their consul in America; and to the consul of the United
States in France, in a like case between their citizens.

The power given by the tenth article, of arresting and sending back a vessel, its captain,
and crew, is a very great one indeed, and, in our opinion, more safely lodged with the territorial
judge. We would ourselves trust the tribunals of France to decide, when there is just cause
for so high-handed an act of authority over the persons and property of so many of our citizens,
to all of whom these tribunals will stand in a neutral and impartial relation, rather than
any single person whom we may appoint as consul, who will seldom be learned in the laws, and
often susceptible of influence from private interest and personal pique. With us, applications
for the arrest of vessels, and of their masters, are made to the admiralty courts. These are
composed of the most learned and virtuous characters in the several States, and the maritime
law, common to all nations, is the rule of their proceedings. The exercise of foreign jurisdiction,
within the pale of their own laws, in a very high case, and wherein those laws have made honorable
provisions, would be a phenomenon never yet seen in our country, and which would be seen with
great jealousy and uneasiness. On the contrary, to leave this power with the territorial judge
will inspire confidence and friendship, and be really, at the same time, more secure against
abuse. The power of arresting deserted seamen seems necessary for the purposes of navigation
and commerce, and will be more attentively and effectually exercised by the consul, than by
the territorial judge. To this part of the tenth article, therefore, as well as to that which
requires the territorial judge to assist the consul in the exercise of this function, we can
accede. But the extension of the like power to passengers, seems not necessary for the purposes
either of navigation or commerce. It does not come, therefore, within the functions of the
consul, whose institution is for those two objects only, nor within the powers of a commissioner,
authorized to treat and conclude a convention, solely for regulating the powers, privileges,
and duties of consuls. The arrest and detention of passengers, moreover, would often be in
contradiction to our bills of rights, which, being fundamental, cannot be obstructed in their
operation by any law or convention whatever.

Consular institutions being entirely new with us, Congress think it wise to make their first
convention probationary, and not perpetual. They propose, therefore, a clause for limiting
its duration to a certain term of years. If after the experience of a few years, it should
be found to answer the purposes intended by it, both parties will have sufficient inducements
to renew it, either in its present form, or with such alterations and amendments, as time,
experience, and other circumstances may indicate.

The convention, as expressed in the French language, will fully answer our purposes in France,
because it will there be understood. But it will not equally answer the purposes of France
in America, because it will not there be understood. In very few of the courts, wherein it
may be presented, will there be found a single judge or advocate, capable of translating it
at all, much less of giving to all its terms, legal and technical, their exact equivalent in
the laws and language of that country. Should any translation which Congress would undertake
to publish, for the use of our courts, be conceived on any occasion not to render fully the
idea of the French original, it might be imputed as an indirect attempt to abridge or extend
the terms of a contract, at the will of one party only. At no place are there better helps
than here, for establishing an English text equivalent to the French, in all its phrases; no
persons can be supposed to know what is meant by these phrases, better than those who form
them; and no time more proper to ascertain their meaning in both languages than that at which
they are formed. I have, therefore, the honor to propose, that the convention shall be faithfully
expressed in English as well as in French, in two columns, side by side, that these columns
be declared each of them to be text, and to be equally original and authentic in all courts
of justice.

This, Sir, is a general sketch of the alterations, which our laws and our manner of thinking
render necessary in this convention, before the faith of our country is engaged for its execution.
Some of its articles, in their present form, could not be executed at all, and others would
produce embarrassments and ill humor, to which it would not be prudent for our government to
commit itself. Inexact execution on the one part, would naturally beget dissatisfaction and
complaints on the other; and an instrument intended to strengthen our connection, might thus
become the means of loosening it. Fewer articles, better observed, will better promote our
common interests. As to ourselves, we do not find the institution of consuls very necessary.
Its history commences in times of barbarism, and might well have ended with them. During these,
they were, perhaps, useful, and may still be so in countries not yet emerged from that condition.
But all civilized nations at this day understand so well the advantages of commerce, that they
provide protection and encouragement for merchant strangers and vessels coming among them.
So extensive, too, have commercial connections now become, that every mercantile house has
correspondents in almost every port. They address their vessels to these correspondents, who
are found to take better care of their interests, and to obtain more effectually the protection
of the laws of the country for them, than the consul of their nation can. He is generally a
foreigner, unpossessed of the little details of knowledge of greatest use to them. He makes
national questions of all the difficulties which arise; the correspondent prevents them. We
carry on commerce with good success in all parts of the world; yet we have not a consul in
a single port, nor a complaint for the want of one, except from the persons who wish to be
consuls themselves. Though these considerations may not be strong enough to establish the absolute
inutility of consuls, they may make us less anxious to extend their privileges and jurisdictions,
so as to render them objects of jealousy and irritation, in the places of their residence.
That this government thinks them useful, is sufficient reason for us to give them all the functions
and facilities which our circumstances will admit. Instead, therefore, of declining every article
which will be useless to us, we accede to every one which will not be inconvenient. Had this
nation been alone concerned, our desire to gratify them might have tempted us to press still
harder on the laws and opinions of our country. But your Excellency knows, that we stand engaged
in treaties with some nations, which will give them occasion to claim whatever privileges we
yield to any other. This renders circumspection more necessary. Permit me to add one other
observation. The English allow to foreign consuls scarcely any functions within their ports.
This proceeds, in a great measure, from the character of their laws, which eye, with peculiar
jealousy, every exemption from their control. Ours are the same in their general character,
and rendered still more unpliant, by our having thirteen parliaments to relax, instead of one.
Upon the whole, I hope your Excellency will see the causes of the delay which this convention
has met with, in the difficulties it presents, and our desire to surmount them: and will be
sensible that the alterations proposed, are dictated to us by the necessity of our circumstances,
and by a caution, which cannot be disapproved, to commit ourselves to no engagements which
we foresee we might not be able o fulfil.

These alterations, with some other smaller ones, which may be offered on the sole principle
of joint convenience, shall be the subject of more particular explanation, whenever your Excellency
shall honor me with a conference thereon. I shall then, also, point out the verbal changes
which appear to me necessary, to accommodate the instrument to the views before expressed.

Paris, July 16, 1788.

Sir,

In your favor of the 8th instant, you mentioned that you had written to me in February last.
This letter never came to hand. That of April the 24th came here during my absence on a journey
through Holland and Germany; and my having been obliged to devote the first moments after my
return to some very pressing matters, must be my apology for not having been able to write
to you till now. As soon as I knew that it would be agreeable to you to have such a disposal
of your work for translation, as I had made for Dr. Ramsay, I applied to the same bookseller
with propositions on your behalf. He told me, that he had lost so much by that work, that he
could hardly think of undertaking another, and, at any rate, not without first seeing and examining
it. As he was the only bookseller I could induce to give any thing on the former occasion,
I went to no other with my proposal, meaning to ask you to send me immediately as much of the
work as is printed. This you can do by the Diligence, which comes three times a week from London
to Paris. Furnished with this, I will renew my proposition, and do the best for you I can;
though I fear that the ill success of the translation of Dr. Ramsay's work, and of another
work on the subject of America, will permit less to be done for you than I had hoped. I think
Dr. Ramsay failed from the inelegance of the translation, and the translator's having departed
entirely from the Doctor's instructions. I will be obliged to you, to set me down as subscriber
for half a dozen copies, and to ask Mr. Trumbull (No. 2, North street, Rathbone Place) to pay
you the whole subscription price for me, which he will do on showing him this letter. These
copies can be sent by the Diligence. I have not yet received the pictures Mr. Trumbull was
to send me, nor consequently that of M. de la Fayette. I will take care of it when it arrives.
His title is simply, Le Marquis de la Fayette.

You ask, in your letter of April the 24th, details of my sufferings by Colonel Tarleton. I
did not suffer by him. On the contrary, he behaved very genteelly with me. On his approach
to Charlottesville, which is within three miles of my house at Monticello, he despatched a
troop of his horse, under Captain McLeod, with the double object of taking me prisoner, with
the two Speakers of the Senate and Delegates, who then lodged with me, and of remaining there
in vidette, my house commanding a view often or twelve miles round about. He gave strict orders
to Captain McLeod to suffer nothing to be injured. The troop failed in one of their objects,
as we had notice of their coming, so that the two Speakers had gone off about two hours before
their arrival at Monticello, and myself, with my family, about five minutes. But Captain McLeod
preserved every thing with sacred care, during about eighteen hours that he remained there.
Colonel Tarleton was just so long at Charlottesville, being hurried from thence by the news
of the rising of the militia, and by a sudden fall of rain which threatened to swell the river
and intercept his return. In general he did little injury to the inhabitants on that short
and hasty excursion, which was of about sixty miles from their main army, then in Spotsylvania,
and ours in Orange. It was early in June, 1781. Lord Cornwallis then proceeded to the Point
of Fork, and encamped his army from thence all along the main James River, to a seat of mine
called Elk-hill, opposite to Elk Island, and a little below the mouth of the Byrd Creek. (You
will see all these places exactly laid down in the map annexed to my Notes on Virginia, printed
by Stockdale.) He remained in this position ten days, his own head-quarters being in my house,
at that place. I had time to remove most of the effects out of the house. They raged in Virginia
six months only, from the middle of April to the middle of October, 1781, when they were all
taken prisoners; and I give you a faithful specimen of their transactions for ten days of that
time, and on one spot only. Ex pede Herculem. I suppose their whole devastations during those
six months, amounted to about three millions sterling.

Paris, July 19, 1788.

Dear Sir,

My last letter to you was of the 13th of August last. As you seem willing to accept of the
crumbs of science on which we are subsisting here, it is with pleasure I continue to hand them
on to you, in proportion as they are dealt out. Herschel's volcano in the moon you have doubtless
heard of, and placed among the other vagaries of a head, which seems not organized for sound
induction. The wildness of the theories hitherto proposed by him, on his own discoveries, seems
to authorize us to consider his merit as that of a good optician only. You know also, that
Doctor Ingenhouse had discovered, as he supposed from experiment, that vegetation might be
promoted by occasioning streams of the electrical fluid to pass through a plant, and that other
physicians had received and confirmed this theory. He now, however, retracts it, and finds
by more decisive experiments, that the electrical fluid can neither forward nor retard vegetation.
Uncorrected still of the rage of drawing general conclusions from partial and equivocal observations,
he hazards the opinion that light promotes vegetation. I have heretofore supposed from observation,
that light affects the color of living bodies, whether vegetable or animal; but that either
the one or the other receives nutriment from that fluid, must be permitted to be doubted of,
till better confirmed by observation. It is always better to have no ideas, than false ones;
to believe nothing, than to believe what is wrong. In my mind, theories are more easily demolished
than rebuilt.

An Abbe here, has shaken, if not destroyed, the theory of De Dominis, Descartes and Newton,
for explaining the phenomenon of the rainbow. According to that theory, you know, a cone of
rays issuing from the sun, and falling on a cloud in the opposite part of the heavens, is reflected
back in the form of a smaller cone, the apex of which is the eye of the observer: so that the
eye of the observer must be in the axis of both cones, and equally distant from every part
of the bow. But he observes, that he has repeatedly seen bows, the one end of which has been
very near to him, and the other at a very great distance. I have often seen the same thing
myself. I recollect well to have seen the end of a rainbow between myself and a house, or between
myself and a bank, not twenty yards distant; and this repeatedly. But I never saw, what he
says he has seen, different rainbows at the same time, intersecting each other. I never saw
coexistent bows, which were not concentric also. Again, according to the theory, if the sun
is in the horizon, the horizon intercepts the lower half of the bow, if above the horizon,
that intercepts more than the half, in proportion. So that generally the bow is less than a
semicircle, and never more. He says he has seen it more than a semicircle. I have often seen
the leg of the bow below my level. My situation at Monticello admits this, because there is
a mountain there in the opposite direction of the afternoon's sun, the valley between which
and Monticello is five hundred feet deep. I have seen a leg of a rainbow plunge down on the
river running through the valley. But I do not recollect to have remarked at any time, that
the bow was more than half a circle. It appears to me, that these facts demolish the Newtonian
hypothesis, but they do not support that erected in its stead by the Abbe. He supposes a cloud
between the sun and observer, and that through some opening in that cloud, the rays pass, and
form an iris on the opposite part of the heavens, just as a ray passing through a hole in the
shutter of a darkened room, and falling on a prism there, forms the prismatic colors on the
opposite wall. According to this, we might see bows of more than the half circle, as often
as of less. A thousand other objections occur to this hypothesis, which need not be suggested
to you. The result is, that we are wiser than we were, by having an error the less in our catalogue;
but the blank occasioned by it, must remain for some happier hypothesist to fill up.

The dispute about the conversion and reconversion of water and air, is still stoutly kept up.
The contradictory experiments of chemists, leave us at liberty to conclude what we please.
My conclusion is, that art has not yet invented sufficient aids, to enable such subtle bodies
to make a well defined impression on organs as blunt as ours: that it is laudable to encourage
investigation, but to hold back conclusion. Speaking one day with Monsieur de Buffon on the
present ardor of chemical inquiry, he affected to consider chemistry but as cookery, and to
place the toils of the laboratory on a footing with those of the kitchen. I think it, on the
contrary, among the most useful of sciences, and big with future discoveries for the utility
and safety of the human race. It is yet, indeed, a mere embryon. Its principles are contested;
experiments seem contradictory; their subjects are so minute as to escape our senses; and their
result too fallacious to satisfy the mind. It is probably an age too soon, to propose the establishment
of a system. The attempt, therefore, of Lavoisier to reform the chemical nomenclature, is premature.
One single experiment may destroy the whole filiation of his terms, and his string of sulfates,
sulfiles, and sulfures may have served no other end, than to have retarded the progress of
the science, by a jargon, from the confusion of which, time will be requisite to extricate
us. Accordingly, it is not likely to be admitted generally.

You are acquainted with the properties of the composition of nitre, salt of tartar, and sulphur,
called pulvis fulminans. Of this, the explosion is produced by heat alone. Monsieur Bertholet,
by dissolving silver in the nitrous acid, precipitating it with lime-water, and drying the
precipitate on ammoniac, has discovered a powder, which fulminates most powerfully, on coming
into contact with any substance whatever. Once made, it cannot be touched. It cannot be put
into a bottle, but must remain in the capsula, where dried. The property of the spathic acid,
to corrode flinty substances, has been lately applied by a Mr. Puymaurin, to engrave on glass,
as artists engrave on copper, with aquafortis.

M. de la Place has discovered, that the secular acceleration and retardation of the moon's
motion, is occasioned by the action of the sun, in proportion as his excentricity changes,
or, in other words, as the orbit of the earth increases or diminishes. So that this irregularity
is now perfectly calculable.

Having seen announced in a gazette, that some person had found, in a library of Sicily, an
Arabic translation of Livy, which was thought to be complete, I got the chargé des affaires
of Naples here, to write to Naples to inquire into the fact. He obtained in answer, that an
Arabic translation was found, and that it would restore to us seventeen of the books lost,
to wit, from the sixtieth to the seventy-seventh, inclusive: that it was in possession of an
Abbe Vella, who, as soon as he shall have finished a work he has on hand, will give us an Italian,
and perhaps a Latin translation of this Livy. There are persons, however, who doubt the truth
of this discovery, founding their doubts on some personal circumstances relating to the person
who says he has this translation. I find, nevertheless, that the chargé des affaires believes
in the discovery, which makes me hope it may be true.

A countryman of ours, a Mr. Ledyard of Connecticut, set out from hence some time ago for St.
Petersburg, to go thence to Kamtschatka, thence to cross over to the western coast of America,
and penetrate through the continent, to the other side of it. He had got within a few days'
journey of Kamtschatka, when he was arrested by order of the Empress of Russia, sent back,
and turned adrift in Poland. He went to London; engaged under the auspices of a private society,
formed there for pushing discoveries into Africa; passed by this place, which he left a few
days ago for Marseilles, where he will embark for Alexandria and Grand Cairo; thence explore
the Nile to its source; cross the head of the Niger, and descend that to its mouth. He promises
me, if he escapes through his journey, he will go to Kentucky, and endeavor to penetrate westwardly
to the South Sea.

The death of M. de Buffon you have heard long ago. I do not know whether we shall have anything
posthumous of his. As to political news, this country is making its way to a good constitution.
The only danger is, they may press so fast as to produce an appeal to arms, which might have
an unfavorable issue for them. As yet the appeal is not made. Perhaps the war, which seems
to be spreading from nation to nation, may reach them this would insure the calling of the
States General, and this, as is supposed, the establishment of a constitution.

Paris, July 18, 1788.

Dear Sir,

Messrs. Berard were to have given me particular accounts of the proceeds of the shipments of
rice made to them. But they have failed. I fear, from what they mention, that the price has
been less advantageous than usual; which is unlucky, as it falls the first essay. If on the
whole, however, you get as much as you would have done by a sale on the spot, it should encourage
other adventures, because the price at Havre or Rouen is commonly higher, and because I think
you may, by trials, find out the way to avail yourselves of the Paris retail price. The Carolina
rice, sold at Paris, is separated into three kinds; 1. the whole grains; 2. the broken grains;
3. the small stuff; and sell at ten, eight, and six livres the French pound, retail. The whole
grains, which constitute the first quality, are picked out by hand. I would not recommend this
operation to be done with you, because labor is dearer there than here. But I mention these
prices, to show, that after making a reasonable deduction for sorting, and leaving a reasonable
profit to the retailer, there should still remain a great wholesale price. I shall wish to
know from you, how much your cargo of rice shipped to Berard netts you, and how much it would
have netted in hard money, if you had sold it at home.

You promise, in your letter of October the 23rd, 1787, to give me in your next, at large, the
conjectures of your philosopher on the descent of the Creek Indians from the Carthaginians,
supposed to have been separated from Hanno's fleet, during his periplus. I shall be very glad
to receive them, and see nothing impossible in his conjecture. I am glad he means to appeal
to similarity of language, which I consider as the strongest kind of proof it is possible to
adduce. I have somewhere read, that the language of the ancient Carthaginians is still spoken
by their descendants, inhabiting the mountainous interior parts of Barbary, to which they were
obliged to retire by the conquering Arabs. If so, a vocabulary of their tongue can still be
got, and if your friend will get one of the Creek languages, the comparison will decide. He
probably may have made progress in this business: but if he wishes any inquiries to be made
on this side the Atlantic, I offer him my services cheerfully; my wish being, like his to ascertain
the history of the American aborigines.

I congratulate you on the accesion of your State to the new federal constitution. This is the
last I have yet heard of, but I expect daily to hear that my own has followed the good example,
and suppose it to be already established. Our government wanted bracing. Still we must take
care not to run from one extreme to another; not to brace too high. I own, I join those in
opinion, who think a bill of rights necessary. I apprehend too, that the total abandonment
of the principle of rotation in the offices of President and Senator, will end in abuse. But
my confidence is, that there will, for a long time, be virtue and good sense enough in our
countrymen, to correct abuses. We can surely boast of having set the world a beautiful example
of a government reformed by reason alone, without bloodshed. But the world is too far oppressed
to profit by the example. On this side of the Atlantic, the blood of the people has become
an inheritance, and those who fatten on it, will not relinquish it easily. The struggle in
this country is, as yet, of doubtful issue. It is, in fact, between the monarchy and the parliaments.
The nation is no otherwise concerned, but as both parties may be induced to let go some of
its abuses, to court the public favor. The danger is, that the people, deceived by a false
cry of liberty, may be led to take side with one party, and thus give the other a pretext for
crushing them still more. If they can avoid the appeal to arms, the nation will be sure to
gain much by this controversy. But if that appeal is made, it will depend entirely on the disposition
of the army, whether it issue in liberty or despotism. Those dispositions are not as yet known.
In the mean time, there is great probability that the war kindled in the east, will spread
from nation to nation, and, in the long run, become general.

Paris, July 25,1788.

Dear Sir,

Though I have written to you seldom, you are often the object of my thoughts, and always of
my affection. The truth is, that the circumstances with which I am surrounded, offer little
worth detailing to you. You are too wise to feel an interest in the squabbles, in which the
pride, the dissipations, and the tyranny of kings, keep this hemisphere constantly embroiled.
Science, indeed, finds some aliment here, and you are one of her sons. But this I have pretty
regularly communicated to Mr. Madison, with whom, I am sure, you participate of it. It is with
sincere pleasure I congratulate you on the good fortune of our friend Mazzei, who is appointed
here, to correspond with the King of Poland. The particular character given him is not well
defined, but the salary is, which is more important. It is eight thousand livres a year, which
will enable him to live comfortably, while his duties will find him that occupation, without
which he cannot exist. Whilst this appointment places him at his ease, it affords a hope of
permanence also. It suspends, if not entirely prevents, the visit he had intended to his native
country, and the return to his adoptive one, which the death of his wife had rendered possible.
This last event has given him three quarters of the globe elbow-room, which he had ceded to
her, on condition she would leave him quiet in the fourth. Their partition of the next world
will be more difficult, if it be divided only into two parts, according to the protestant faith.
Having seen by a letter you wrote him, that you were in want of a pair of spectacles, I undertook
to procure you some, which I packed in a box of books addressed to Mr. Wythe, and of which
I beg your acceptance. This box lay forgotten at Havre the whole of the last winter, but was
at length shipped, and I trust has come to hand. I packed with the spectacles three or four
pair of glasses, adapted to the different periods of life, distinguished from each other by
numbers, and easily changed. You see I am looking forward in hope of a long life for you; and
that it may be long enough to carry you through the whole succession of glasses, is my sincere
prayer.

Paris, July 31, 1788.

Dear Sir,

My last letters to you were of the 3rd and the 25th of May. Yours from Orange, of April the
22nd, came to hand on the 10th instant.

My letter to Mr. Jay containing all the public news that is well authenticated, I will not
repeat it here, but add some details in the smaller way, which you may be glad to know. The
disgrace of the Marquis de la Fayette, which, at any other period of their history, would have
had the worst consequences for him, will, on the contrary, mark him favorably to the nation,
at present. During the present administration, he can expect nothing; but perhaps it may serve
him with their successors, whenever a change shall take place. No change of the Principal will
probably take place, before the meeting of the States General; though a change is to be wished,
for his operations do not answer the expectations formed of him. These had been calculated,
on his brilliancy in society. He is very feebly aided too. Montmorin is weak, though a most
worthy character. He is indolent and inattentive too, in the extreme. Luzerne is considerably
inferior in abilities to his brother, whom you know. He is a good man too, but so much out
of his element, that he has the air of one huskanoyed. The Garde des Sceaux is considered as
the Principal's bull-dog, braving danger like the animal. His talents do not pass mediocrity.
The Archbishop's brother, and the new minister Villedeuil, and Lambert, have no will of their
own. They cannot raise money for the peace establishment the next year, without the States
General; much less if there be war; and their administration will probably end with the States
General.

Littlepage, who was here as a secret agent for the King of Poland, rather overreached himself.
He wanted more money. The King furnished it, more than once. Still he wanted more, and thought
to obtain a high bid, by saying he was called for in America, and asking leave to go there.
Contrary to his expectation, he received leave; but he went to Warsaw instead of America, and
from thence, to join the * * * * I do not know

     [* Several paragraphs of this letter are in cipher, A few
     words here could not be deciphered.]

these facts certainly, but collect them, by putting several things together. The King then
sent an ancient secretary here, in whom he had much confidence, to look out for a correspondent,
a mere letter-writer for him. A happy hazard threw Mazzei in his way. He recommended him, and
he is appointed. He has no diplomatic character whatever, but is to receive eight thousand
livres a year, as an intelligencer. I hope this employment may have some permanence. The danger
is, that he will over-act his part.

The Marquis de la Luzerne had been for many years married to his brother's wife's sister, secretly.
She was ugly and deformed, but sensible, amiable, and rather rich. When he was ambassador to
London, with ten thousand guineas a year, the marriage was avowed, and he relinquished his
cross of Malta, from which he derived a handsome revenue for life, and which was very open
to advancement. Not long ago, she died. His real affection for her, which was great and unfeigned,
and perhaps the loss of his order, for so short-lived a satisfaction, has thrown him almost
into a state of despondency. He is now here.

I send you a book of Dupont's, on the subject of the commercial treaty with England. Though
its general matter may not be interesting, yet you will pick up, in various parts of it, such
excellent principles and observations, as will richly repay the trouble of reading it. I send
you, also, two little pamphlets of the Marquis de Condorcet, wherein is the most judicious
statement I have seen, of the great questions which agitate this nation at present. The new
regulations present a preponderance of good over their evil; but they suppose that the King
can model the constitution at will, or, in other words, that his government is a pure despotism.
The question then arising is, whether a pure despotism in a single head, or one which is divided
among a king, nobles, priesthood, and numerous magistracy, is the least bad. I should be puzzled
to decide: but I hope they will have neither, and that they are advancing to a limited, moderate
government, in which the people will have a good share.

I sincerely rejoice at the acceptance of our new constitution by nine States. It is a good
canvass, on which some strokes only want retouching. What these are, I think are sufficiently
manifested by the general voice from north to south, which calls for a bill of rights. It seems
pretty generally understood, that this should go to juries, habeas corpus, standing armies,
printing, religion, and monopolies. I conceive there may be difficulty in finding general modifications
of these, suited to the habits of all the States. But if such cannot be found, then it is better
to establish trials by jury, the right of habeas corpus, freedom of the press, and freedom
of religion, in all cases, and to abolish standing armies in time of peace, and monopolies
in all cases, than not to do it in any. The few cases wherein these things may do evil, cannot
be weighed against the multitude, wherein the want of them will do evil. In disputes between
a foreigner and a native, a trial by jury may be improper. But if this exception cannot be
agreed to, the remedy will be to model the jury, by giving the medietas linguæ, in civil as
well as criminal cases. Why suspend the habeas corpus in insurrections and rebellions? The
parties who may be arrested, may be charged instantly with a well-defined crime: of course,
the judge will remand them. If the public safety requires, that the government should have
a man imprisoned on less probable testimony in those than in other emergencies, let him be
taken and tried, retaken and retried, while the necessity continues, only giving him redress
against the government, for damages. Examine the history of England. See how few of the cases
of the suspension of the habeas corpus law have been worthy of that suspension. They have been
either real treason, wherein the parties might as well have been charged at once, or sham plots,
where it was shameful they should ever have been suspected. Yet for the few cases, wherein
the suspension of the habeas corpus has done real good, that operation is now become habitual,
and the minds of the nation almost prepared to live under its constant suspension. A declaration,
that the federal government will never restrain the presses from printing any thing they please,
will not take away the liability of the printers for false facts printed. The declaration,
that religious faith shall be unpunished, does not give impunity to criminal acts, dictated
by religious error. The saying--there shall be no monopolies, lessens the incitements to ingenuity,
which is spurred on by the hope of a monopoly for a limited time, as of fourteen years; but
the benefit of even limited monopolies is too doubtful, to be opposed to that of their general
suppression. If no check can be found to keep the number of standing troops within safe bounds,
while they are tolerated as far as necessary, abandon them altogether, discipline well the
militia, and guard the magazines with them. More than magazine guards will be useless, if few,
and dangerous, if many. No European nation can ever send against us such a regular army as
we need fear, and it is hard, if our militia are not equal to those of Canada or Florida. My
idea then, is, that though proper exceptions to these general rules are desirable, and probably
practicable, yet if the exceptions cannot be agreed on, the establishment of the rules, in
all cases, will do ill in very few. I hope, therefore, a bill of rights will be formed, to
guard the people against the federal government, as they are already guarded against their
State governments, in most instances. The abandoning the principle of necessary rotation in
the Senate, has, I see, been disapproved by many: in the case of the President, by none. I
readily, therefore, suppose my opinion wrong, when opposed by the majority, as in the former
instance, and the totality, as in the latter. In this, however, I should have done it with
more complete satisfaction, had we all judged from the same position.

Solicitations, which cannot be directly refused, oblige me to trouble you often with letters,
recommending and introducing to you persons who go from hence to America. I will beg the favor
of you to distinguish the letters wherein I appeal to recommendations from other persons, from
those which I write on my own knowledge. In the former, it is never my intention to compromit
myself or you. In both instances, I must beg you to ascribe the trouble I give you, to circumstances
which do not leave me at liberty to decline it.

Paris, August 3, 1788.

Sir,

My last letters to you were of the 4th and 23d of May, with a Postscript of the 27th. Since
that, I have been honored with yours of April the 24th, May the 16th, and June the 9th.

The most remarkable internal occurrences since my last are these. The Noblesse of Bretagne,
who had received with so much warmth the late innovations in the government, assembled, and
drew up a memorial to the King, and chose twelve members of their body to come and present
it. Among these was the Marquis de la Rouerie (Colonel Armand). The King, considering the Noblesse
as having no legal right to assemble, declined receiving the memorial. The deputies, to give
greater weight to it, called a meeting of the landed proprietors of Bretagne, resident at Paris,
and proposed to them to add their signatures--They did so, to the number of about sixty, of
whom the Marquis de la Fayette was one. The twelve deputies, for having called this meeting,
were immediately sent to the Bastile where they now are, and the Parisian signers were deprived
of such favors as they held of the court. There were only four of them, however, who held any
thing of that kind. The Marquis de la Fayette was one of these. They had given him a military
command, to be exercised in the south of France, during the months of August and September
of the present year. This they took from him; so that he is disgraced, in the ancient language
of the court, but in truth, honorably marked in the eyes of the nation. The ministers are so
sensible of this, that they have had, separately, private conferences with him, to endeavor,
through him, to keep things quiet. From the character of the province of Bretagne, it was much
apprehended, for some days, that the imprisonment of their deputies would have produced an
insurrection. But it took another turn. The Cours intermédiaire of the province, acknowledged
to be a legal body, deputed eighteen members of their body to the King. To these he gave an
audience, and the answer, of which I send you a copy. This is hard enough. Yet I am in hopes
the appeal to the sword will be avoided, and great modifications in the government be obtained
without bloodshed. As yet none has been spilt, according to the best evidence I have been able
to obtain, notwithstanding what the foreign newspapers have said to the contrary. The convocation
of the States General has now become inevitable. Whenever the time shall be announced certainly,
it will keep the nation quiet till they meet. According to present probabilities, this must
be in the course of the next summer; but to what movements their meeting and measures may give
occasion, cannot be foreseen. Should a foreign war take place, still they must assemble the
States General, because they cannot, but by their aid, obtain money to carry it on. Monsieur
de Malesherbes will, I believe, retire from the King's Council. He has been much opposed to
the late acts of authority. The Baron de Breteuil has resigned his secretaryship of the domestic
department; certainly not for the same reasons, as he is known to have been of opinion, that
the King had compromitted too much of his authority. The real reason has probably been, an
impatience of acting under a principal minister. His successor is M. de Villedeuil, lately
Comptroller General.

The ambassadors of Tippoo Saib have arrived here. If their mission has any other object than
that of pomp and ceremony, it is not yet made known. Though this court has not avowed that
they are in possession of Trincomale, yet the report is believed, and that possession was taken
by General Conway, in consequence of orders given in the moment that they thought a war certain.
The dispute with the States General of the United Netherlands, on account of the insult to
M. de St. Priest, does not tend as yet towards a settlement. He has obtained leave to go to
the waters, and perhaps from thence he may come to Paris, to await events. Sweden has commenced
hostilities against Russia, by the taking a little fortress by land. This having been their
intention, it is wonderful, that when their fleet lately met three Russian ships of one hundred
guns each, they saluted instead of taking them. The Empress has declared war against them in
her turn. It is well understood, that Sweden is set on by England, and paid by the Turks. The
prospect of Russia has much brightened by some late successes. Their fleet of galleys and gun-boats,
twenty-seven in number, having been attacked by fifty-seven Turkish vessels of the same kind,
commanded by the Captain Pacha, these were repulsed, with the loss of three vessels. In the
action, which was on the 18th of June, Admiral Paul Jones commanded the right wing of the Russians,
and the Prince of Nassau the left. On the 26th of the same month, the Turkish principal fleet,
that is to say, their ships of the line, frigates, &c, having got themselves near the swash,
at the mouth of the Borysthenes, the Prince of Nassau took advantage of their position, attacked
them while so engaged in the mud that they could not manoeuvre, burnt six, among which were
the admiral's and vice-admiral's, took two, and made between three and four thousand prisoners.
The first reports gave this success to Admiral Paul Jones; but it is now rendered rather probable
that he was not there, as he commands the vessels of war which are said not to have been there.
It is supposed, that his presence in the affair of the 18th was accidental. But if this success
has been so complete as it is represented, the Black Sea must be tolerably open to the Russians:
in which case, we may expect, from what we know of that officer, that he will improve to the
greatest advantage the situation of things on that sea. The Captain Pacha's standard was taken
in the last action, and himself obliged to make his escape in a small vessel. Prince Potemkin
immediately got under march for Oczakow, to take advantage of the consternation into which
that place was thrown.

The Spanish squadron, after cruising off the Western Isles and Cape St. Vincent, has returned
into port.

A dispute has arisen between the Papal See and the King of Naples, which may, in its progress,
enable us to estimate what degree of influence that See retains at the present day. The kingdom
of Naples, at an early period of its history, became feudatory to the See of Rome, and in acknowledgment
thereof, has annually paid a hackney to the Pope in Rome, to which place it has always been
sent by a splendid embassy. The hackney has been refused by the King this year, and the Pope,
giving him three months to return to obedience, threatens, if he does not, to proceed seriously
against him.

About three weeks ago a person called on me, and informed me, that Silas Deane had taken him
in for a sum of one hundred and twenty guineas, and that being unable to obtain any other satisfaction,
he had laid hands on his account book and letter book, and had brought them off to Paris, to
offer them first to the United States, if they would repay him his money, and if not, that
he should return to London, and offer them to the British minister. I desired him to leave
them with me four and twenty hours, that I might judge whether they were worth our notice.
He did so. They were two volumes. One contained all his accounts with the United States, from
his first coming to Europe to January the 10th, 1781. Presuming that the treasury board was
in possession of this account till his arrival in Philadelphia, August, 1778, and that he had
never given in the subsequent part, I had that subsequent part copied from the book, and now
enclose it, as it may on some occasion or other, perhaps, be useful in the treasury office.
The other volume contained all his correspondences from March the 30th to August the 23d, 1777.
I had a list of the letters taken by their dates and addresses, which will enable you to form
a general idea of the collection. On perusal of many of them, I thought it desirable that they
should not come to the hands of the British minister, and from an expression dropped by the
possessor of them, I believe he would have fallen to fifty or sixty guineas. I did not think
them important enough, however, to justify my purchasing them without authority; though, with
authority, I should have done it. Indeed, I would have given that sum to cut out a single sentence,
which contained evidence of a fact, not proper to be committed to the hands of enemies. I told
him I would state his proposition to you, and await orders. I gave him back the books, and
he returned to London without making any promise, that he would await the event of the orders
you might think proper to give.

News of the accession of nine States to the new form of federal government has been received
here about a week. I have the honor to congratulate you sincerely on this event. Of its effect
at home, you are in the best situation to judge. On this side the Atlantic, it is considered
as a very wise reformation. In consequence of this, speculations are already begun here, to
purchase up our domestic liquidated debt. Indeed, I suspect that orders may have been previously
lodged in America to do this, as soon as the new constitution was accepted effectually. If
it is thought that this debt should be retained at home, there is not a moment to lose; and
I know of no means of retaining it, but those I suggested to the treasury board, in my letter
to them of March the 29th. The transfer of these debts to Europe will excessively embarrass,
and perhaps totally prevent the borrowing any money in Europe, till these shall be paid off.
This is a momentous object, and, in my opinion, should receive instantaneous attention.

The gazettes of France, to the departure of my letter, will accompany it, and those of Leyden
to the 22nd of July, at which time their distribution in this country was prohibited. How long
the prohibition may continue, I cannot tell. As far as I can judge, it is the only paper in
Europe worth reading. Since the suppression of the packet-boats, I have never been able to
find a safe conveyance for a letter to you, till the present by Mrs. Barclay. Whenever a confidential
person shall be going from hence to London, I shall send my letters for you to the care of
Mr. Trumbull, who will look out for safe conveyances. This will render the epochs of my writing
very irregular. There is a proposition under consideration, for establishing packet-boats on
a more economical plan, from Havre to Boston; but its success is uncertain, and still more,
its duration.

Paris, August 9, 1788.

Dear Sir,

Since my last to you, I have to thank your for your favors of July the 27th, 1787, and April
the 10th, 1788, and the details they contained; and in return, will give you now the leading
circumstances of this continent.

*****

This nation is at present under great internal agitation. The authority of the crown on one
part, and that of the parliaments on the other, are fairly at issue. Good men take part with
neither, but have raised an opposition, the object of which is to obtain a fixed and temperate
constitution. There was a moment when this opposition ran so high, as to endanger an appeal
to arms, in which case, perhaps, it would have been crushed. The moderation of government has
avoided this, and they are yielding daily one right after another to the nation. They have
given them Provincial Assemblies, which will be very perfect representations of the nation,
and stand somewhat in the place of our State Assemblies; they have reformed the criminal law;
acknowledged the King cannot lay a new tax, without the consent of the States General; and
they will call the States General the next year. The object of this body, when met, will be
a bill of rights, a civil list, a national assembly meeting at certain epochs, and some other
matters of that kind. So that I think it probable this country will, within two or three years,
be in the enjoyment of a tolerably free constitution, and that without its having cost them
a drop of blood; for none has yet been spilt, though the English papers have set the whole
nation to cutting throats.

Paris, August 9, 1788.

Dear Sir,

While our second revolution is just brought to a happy end with you, yours here is but cleverly
under way. For some days I was really melancholy with the apprehension, that arms would be
appealed to, and the opposition crushed in its first efforts. But things seem now to wear a
better aspect. While the opposition keeps at its highest wholesome point, government, unwilling
to draw the sword, is not forced to do it. The contest here is exactly what it was in Holland:
a contest between the monarchical and aristocratical parts of the government for a monopoly
of despotism over the people. The aristocracy in Holland, seeing that their common prey was
likely to escape out of their clutches, chose rather to retain its former portion, and therefore
coalesced with the single head. The people remained victims. Here, I think, it will take a
happier turn. The parliamentary part of the aristocracy is alone firmly united. The Noblesse
and Clergy, but especially the former, are divided partly between the parliamentary and the
despotic party, and partly united with the real patriots, who are endeavoring to gain for the
nation what they can, both from the parliamentary and the single despotism. I think I am not
mistaken in believing, that the King and some of his ministers are well affected to this band;
and surely, that they will make great cessions to the people, rather than small ones to the
parliament. They are, accordingly, yielding daily to the national reclamations, and will probably
end in according a well-tempered constitution. They promise the States General for the next
year, and I have good information that an Arrêt will appear the day after to-morrow, announcing
them for May, 1789. How they will be composed, and what they will do, cannot be foreseen. Their
convocation, however, will tranquillize the public mind, in a great degree, till their meeting.
There are, however, two intervening difficulties. 1. Justice cannot till then continue completely
suspended, as it now is. The parliament will not resume their functions, but in their entire
body. The bailliages are afraid to accept of them. What will be done? 2. There are well-founded
fears of a bankruptcy before the month of May. In the mean time, the war is spreading from
nation to nation. Sweden has commenced hostilities against Russia; Denmark is showing its teeth
against Sweden; Prussia against Denmark; and England too deeply engaged in playing the back
game, to avoid coming forward, and dragging this country and Spain in with her. But even war
will not prevent the assembly of the States General, because it cannot be carried on without
them. War, however, is not the most favorable moment for divesting the monarchy of power. On
the contrary, it is the moment when the energy of a single hand shows itself in the most seducing
form.

A very considerable portion of this country has been desolated by a hail. I considered the
newspaper accounts of hailstones of ten pounds weight as exaggerations. But in a conversation
with the Duke de la Rochefoucault the other day, he assured me, that though he could not say
he had seen such himself, yet he considered the fact as perfectly established. Great contributions,
public and private, are making for the sufferers. But they will be like the drop of water from
the finger of Lazarus. There is no remedy for the present evil, nor way to prevent future ones,
but to bring the people to such a state of ease, as not to be ruined by the loss of a single
crop. This hail may be considered as the coup de grace to an expiring victim. In the arts there
is nothing new discovered since you left us, which is worth communicating. Mr. Paine's iron
bridge was exhibited here with great approbation. An idea has been encouraged of executing
it in three arches at the King's garden. But it will probably not be done.

Paris, August 10, 1788.

Sir,

I have waited till the last moment of Mrs. Barclay's departure, to write you the occurrences
since my letter of the 3rd instant. We have received the Swedish account of an engagement between
their fleet and the Russian, on the Baltic, wherein they say they took one, and burned another
Russian vessel, with the loss of one on their side, and that the victory remained with them.
They say, at the same time, that their fleet returned into port, and the Russians kept the
sea; we must, therefore, suspend our opinion till we get the Russian version of this engagement.
The Swedish manifesto was handed about to-day at Versailles, by the Swedish ambassador, in
manuscript. The King complains that Russia has been ever endeavoring to sow divisions in his
kingdom, in order to re-establish the ancient constitution; that he has long borne it, through
a love of peace, but finds it no longer bearable: that still, however, he will make peace on
these conditions; 1. That the Empress punishes her minister for the note he gave in to the
court of Stockholm; 2. that she restore Crimea to the Turks; and 3. that she repay to him all
the expenses of his armament. The Russian force, in vessels of war on the Black Sea, are five
frigates, and three ships of the line; but those of the line are shut up in port, and cannot
come out till Oczakow shall be taken. This fleet is commanded by Paul Jones, with the rank
of rear-admiral. The Prince of Nassau commands the galleys and gun-boats. It is now ascertained,
that the States General will assemble the next year, and probably in the month of May. Tippoo
Saib's ambassadors had their reception to-day at Versailles with unusual pomp. The presence
was so numerous, that little could be caught of what they said to the king, and he answered
to them: from what little I could hear, nothing more passed than mutual assurances of good
will. The name of the Marechal de Richelieu is sufficiently remarkable in history, to justify
my mentioning his death, which happened two days ago; he was aged ninety-two years.

Paris, August 11, 1788.

Sir,

In my letter of the last night, written in the moment of Mrs. Barclay's departure, I had the
honor of mentioning to you, that it was now pretty certain that the States General would be
assembled in the next year, and probably in the month of May. This morning an Arrêt is published,
announcing that their meeting is fixed on the first day of May next, of which I enclose you
a copy by post, in hopes it will get to Bordeaux in time for Mrs. Barclay. This Arrêt ought
to have a great effect towards tranquillizing the nation. There are still, however, two circumstances
which must continue to perplex the administration. The first is, the want of money, occasioned
not only by the difficulty of filling up the loan of the next year, but by the withholding
the ordinary supplies of taxes, which is said to have taken place in some instances: this gives
apprehension of a bankruptcy under some form or other, and has occasioned the stocks to fall,
in the most alarming manner. The second circumstance is, that justice, both civil and criminal,
continues suspended. The parliament will not resume their functions, but with their whole body,
and the greater part of the bailliages declined acting; the present Arrêt announces a perseverance
in this plan. I have information from Algiers, of the 5th of June, that the plague is raging
there, with great violence; that one of our captives was dead of it, and another ill, so that
we have there, in all, now, only fifteen or sixteen; that the captives are more exposed to
its ravages, than others; that the great redemptions by the Spaniards, Portuguese, and Neapolitans,
and the havoc made by the plague, had now left not more than four hundred slaves in Algiers;
so that their redemption was become not only exorbitant, but almost inadmissible; that common
sailors were held at four hundred pounds sterling, and that our fifteen or sixteen could probably
not be redeemed for less than from twenty-five to thirty thousand dollars. An Algerine cruiser,
having twenty-eight captives of Genoa aboard, was lately chased ashore, by two Neapolitan vessels:
the crew and captives got safe ashore, and the latter, of course, recovered their freedom.
The Algerine crew was well treated, and would be sent back by the French. But the government
of Algiers demands of France, sixty thousand sequins, or twenty-seven thousand pounds sterling,
for the captives escaped; that is, nearly one thousand pounds each. The greater part of the
regency were for an immediate declaration of war against France; but the Dey urged the heavy
war the Turks were at present engaged in; that it would be better not to draw another power
on them, at present; that they would decline renewing the treaty of one hundred years, which
expired two years ago, so as to be free to act hereafter; but, for the present, they ought
to accept payment for the captives, as a satisfaction. They accordingly declared to the French
consul, that they would put him, and all his countrymen there, into irons, unless the sixty
thousand sequins were paid: the consul told them, his instructions were, positively, that they
should not be paid. In this situation stood matters between that pettifogging nest of robbers
and this great kingdom, which will finish, probably, by crouching under them, and paying the
sixty thousand sequins. From the personal characters of the present administration, I should
have hoped, under any other situation than the present, they might have ventured to quit the
beaten track of politics hitherto pursued, in which the honor of their nation has been calculated
at nought, and to join in a league for keeping up a perpetual cruise against these pirates,
which, though a slow operation, would be a sure one for destroying all their vessels and seamen,
and turning the rest of them to agriculture. But a desire of not bringing upon themselves another
difficulty, will probably induce the ministers to do as their predecessors have done.

August 12. The enclosed paper of this morning gives some particulars of the action between
the Russians and Swedes, the manifesto of the Empress, and the declaration of the court of
Versailles, as to the affair of Trincomale.

Paris, August 12, 1788.

Dear Sir,

Since my last to you, I have been honored with yours of the 18th and 29th of May, and 5th of
June. My latest American intelligence is of the 24th of June, when nine certainly, and probably
ten States, had accepted the new constitution, and there was no doubt of the eleventh (North
Carolina), because there was no opposition there. In New York, two thirds of the State were
against it, and certainly if they had been called to the decision, in any other stage of the
business, they would have rejected it; but before they put it to the vote, they would certainly
have heard that eleven States had joined in it, and they would find it safer to go with those
eleven, than put themselves into opposition, with Rhode Island only. Though I am much pleased
with this successful issue of the new constitution, yet I am more so, to find that one of its
principal defects (the want of a declaration of rights) will pretty certainly be remedied.
I suppose this, because I see that both people and conventions, in almost every State, have
concurred in demanding it. Another defect, the perpetual re-eligibility of the same President,
will probably not be cured, during the life of General Washington. His merit has blinded our
countrymen to the danger of making so important an officer re-eligible. I presume there will
not be a vote against him, in the United States. It is more doubtful, who will be Vice-President.
The age of Dr. Franklin, and the doubt whether he would accept it, are the only circumstances
that admit a question, but that he would be the man. After these two characters of first magnitude,
there are so many which present themselves equally, on the second line, that we cannot see
which of them will be singled out. John Adams, Hancock, Jay, Madison, Rutledge, will be all
voted for. Congress has acceded to the prayer of Kentucky to become an independent member of
the Union. A committee was occupied in settling the plan of receiving them, and their government
is to commence on the 1st day of January next.

You are, I dare say, pleased, as I am, with the promotion of our countryman, Paul Jones. He
commanded the right wing, in the first engagement between the Russian and Turkish galleys;
his absence from the second, proves his superiority over the Captain Pacha, as he did not choose
to bring his ships into the shoals in which the Pacha ventured, and lost those entrusted to
him. I consider this officer as the principal hope of our future efforts on the ocean. You
will have heard of the action between the Swedes and Russians, on the Baltic; as yet, we have
only the Swedish version of it. I apprehend this war must catch from nation to nation, till
it becomes general.

With respect to the internal affairs of this country, I hope they will be finally well arranged,
and without having cost a drop of blood. Looking on as a by-stander, no otherwise interested,
than as entertaining a sincere love for the nation in general, and a wish to see their happiness
promoted, keeping myself clear of the particular views and passions of individuals, I applaud
extremely the patriotic proceedings of the present ministry. Provincial Assemblies established,
the States General called, the right of taxing the nation without their consent abandoned,
corvées abolished, torture abolished, the criminal code reformed, are facts which will do eternal
honor to their administration, in history. But were I their historian, I should not equally
applaud their total abandonment of their foreign affairs. A bolder front in the beginning,
would have prevented the first loss, and consequently, all the others. Holland, Prussia, Turkey,
and Sweden, lost without the acquisition of a single new ally, are painful reflections for
the friends of France. They may, indeed, have in their places the two empires, and perhaps
Denmark; in which case, physically speaking, they will stand on as good ground as before, but
not on as good moral ground. Perhaps, seeing more of the internal working of the machine, they
saw, more than we do, the physical impossibility of having money to carry on a war. Their justification
must depend on this, and their atonement, on the internal good they are doing to their country;
this makes me completely their friend.

Paris, August 13,1788.

Sir,

I have to acknowledge the receipt of your two favors, of June, and July the 11th, and to thank
you for the political intelligence they contained, which is always interesting to me. I will
ask a continuance of them, and especially that you inform me, from time to time, of the movements
in the ports of Marseilles and Toulon, which may seem to indicate peace or war. These are the
most certain presages possible; and being conveyed to me from all the ports, they will always
enable me to judge of the intentions or expectations of the ministry, and to notify you of
the result of the intelligence from all the ports, that you may communicate it to the American
commerce.

I have the pleasure to inform you, that the new constitution proposed to the United States,
has been established by the votes of nine States. It is happy for us to get this operation
over before the war kindled in Europe could affect us, as by rendering us more respectable,
we shall be more probably permitted, by all parties, to remain neutral.

I take the liberty of putting under your cover a letter for Mr. Bernard, containing some seeds,
and another to Giuseppe Chiappe, our consul at Mogadore. I thank you for your settlement of
the price of the Observations Météorologiques, and I have repaid the sixty livres to Sir John
Lambert, in your name. When the nursery man, whom you have been so good as to employ to prepare
the olives and olive plants, to be sent to Charleston, shall be executing that commission,
I shall be glad if he will, at the same time, prepare a few plants only, of the following kinds.
Figs, the best kind for drying, and the best kind for eating fresh, raisins, the best kind
for drying, prugnolles, cork trees, pistaches, capers. I desire only a few plants of each of
these, that they may not take too much of the place of the olives, which is our great object,
and the sole one we have at heart. If you will be so good as to give the nursery man this order
immediately, it will save you the necessity of recurring to my letter, when the season comes.

Paris, August 20,1788.

Sir,

I had the honor to write to you on the 3rd, 10th, and 11th instant, with a postscript of the
12th; all of which went by Mrs. Barclay. Since that date, we have received an account of a
third victory obtained by the Russians over the Turks, on the Black Sea, in which the Prince
of Nassau, with his galleys, destroyed two frigates, three smaller vessels, and six galleys.
The Turkish power on that sea is represented, by their enemies, as now annihilated. There is
reason to believe, however, that this is not literally true, and that aided by the supplies
furnished by the English, they are making extraordinary efforts to re-establish their marine.
The Russian minister here has shown the official report of Admiral Greigh, on the combat of
July the 17th, in which he claims the victory, and urges in proof of it, that he kept the field
of battle. This report is said to have been written on it. As this paper, together with the
report of the Swedish admiral, is printed in the Leyden gazette of the 15th instant, I enclose
it to you. The court of Denmark has declared, it will furnish Russia the aid stipulated in
their treaty: and it is not doubted they will go beyond this, and become principals in the
war. The next probable moves are, that the King of Prussia will succor Sweden; and Poland,
Russia, by land: and a possible consequence is, that England may send a squadron into the Baltic,
to restore equilibrium in that sea. In my letter of the 11th, I observed to you, that this
country would have two difficulties to struggle with, till the meeting of their States General,
and that one of these was the want of money: this has, in fact, overborne all their resources,
and the day before yesterday, they published an Arrêt, suspending all reimbursements of capital,
and reducing the payments of the principal mass of demands for interest, to twelve sous in
the livre; the remaining eight sous to be paid with certificates. I enclose you a newspaper
with the Arrêt. In this paper you will see the exchange of yesterday, and I have inserted that
of the day before, to show you the fall. The consternation is, as yet, too great to let us
judge of the issue. It will probably ripen the public mind to the necessity of a change in
their constitution, and to the substituting the collected wisdom of the whole, in place of
a single will, by which they have been hitherto governed. It is a remarkable proof of the total
incompetency of a single head to govern a nation well, when, with a revenue of six hundred
millions, they are led to a declared bankruptcy, and to stop the wheels of government, even
in its most essential movements, for want of money.

I send the present letter by a private conveyance to a sea-port, in hopes a conveyance may
be found by some merchant vessel.

Paris, August 23, 1788.

Dear Sir,

I have duly received your favors of the 3rd, 8th, 14th, and 15th instant, and have now the
honor of enclosing you a letter of introduction to Doctor Ramsay.

I think a certainty that England and France must enter into the war, was a great inducement
to the ministry here to suspend the portion of public payments, which they have lately suspended.
By this operation, they secure two hundred and three millions of livres, or eight millions
and a half of guineas, in the course of this and the ensuing year, which will be sufficient
for the campaign of the first year: for what is to, follow, the States General must provide.
The interesting question now is, how the States General shall be composed? There are three
opinions. 1. To place the three estates, Clergy, Noblesse, and Commons, in three different
Houses. The Clergy would, probably, like this, and some of the Nobility; but it has no partisans
out of those orders. 2. To put the Clergy and Noblesse into one House, and the Commons into
another. The Noblesse will be generally for this. 3. To put the three orders into one House,
and make the Commons the majority of that House. This re-unites the greatest number of partisans,
and I suspect it is well patronized in the ministry, who, I am persuaded, are proceeding bona
fide, to improve the constitution of their country. As to the opposition which the English
expect from the personal character of the King, it proves they do not know what his personal
character is. He is the honestest man in his kingdom, and the most regular and economical.
He has no foible which will enlist him against the good of his people; and whatever constitution
will promote this, he will befriend. But he will not befriend it obstinately: he has given
repeated proofs of a readiness to sacrifice his opinion to the wish of the nation. I believe
he will consider the opinion of the States General, as the best evidence of what will please
and profit the nation, and will conform to it. All the characters at court may not be of this
disposition, and from thence may, possibly, arise representations, capable of leading the King
astray; but upon a full view of all circumstances, I have sanguine hopes, that such a constitution
will be established here, as will regenerate the energy of the nation, cover its friends, and
make its enemies tremble.

Paris, September 3, 1788.

Sir,

By Mrs. Barclay I had the honor of sending you letters of the 3rd, 10th, and 11th of August;
since which, I wrote you of the 20th of the same month, by a casual conveyance, as is the present.

In my letter of the 20th, I informed you of the act of public bankruptcy which had taken place
here. The effect of this would have been a forced loan of about one hundred and eighty millions
of livres, in the course of the present and ensuing year. But it did not yield a sufficient
immediate relief. The treasury became literally moneyless, and all purposes depending on this
mover came to a stand. The Archbishop was hereupon removed, with Monsieur Lambert, the Comptroller
General; and Mr. Necker was called in, as Director General of the finance. To soften the Archbishop's
dismission, a cardinal's hat is asked for him from Rome, and his nephew promised the succession
to the Archbishopric of Sens. The public joy, on this change of administration, was very great
indeed. The people of Paris were amusing themselves with trying and burning the Archbishop
in effigy, and rejoicing on the appointment of Mr. Necker. The commanding officer of the city-guards
undertook to forbid this, and not being obeyed, he charged the mob with fixed bayonets, killed
two or three, and wounded many: this stopped their rejoicings for that day; but enraged at
being thus obstructed in amusements wherein they had committed no disorder whatever, they collected
in great numbers the next day, attacked the guards in various places, burnt ten or twelve guard-houses,
killed two or three of the guards, and had about six or eight of their own number killed. The
city was hereupon put under martial law, and after a while, the tumult subsided, and peace
was restored. The public stocks rose ten per cent, on the day of Mr. Necker's appointment:
he was immediately offered considerable sums of money, and has been able so far to wave the
benefit of the act of bankruptcy, as to pay in cash all demands, except the remboursements
des capitaux. For these, and for a sure supply of other wants, he will depend on the States
General, and will hasten their meetings, as is thought. No other change has yet taken place
in the administration. The minister of war, however, must certainly follow his brother, and
some think, and all wish, that Monsieur de Lamoignon, the Garde des Sceaux, may go out also.
The administration of justice is still suspended. The whole kingdom seems tranquil at this moment.

Abroad, no event worth noting has taken place since my last. The court of Denmark has not declared
it will do any thing more, than furnish the stipulated aid to Russia. The King of Prussia has
as yet made no move, which may decide whether he will engage in the war, nor has England sent
any squadron into the Baltic. As the season for action is considerably passed over, it is become
more doubtful, whether any other power will enter the lists till the next campaign; this will
give time for stopping the further progress of the war, if they really wish to stop it. Two
camps of twenty-five thousand men each are forming in this country on its northern limits.
The Prince of Conde has the command of one, and the Duke de Broglio of the other.

I trouble you with the enclosed letter from a Henry Watson, claiming prize monies, as having
served under Admiral Paul Jones, which I suppose should go to the treasury, or war-office.

Paris, September 6, 1788.

Gentlemen,

Your favor of July the 3rd came to hand some days ago, and that of July the 22nd in the afternoon
of yesterday. Knowing that a Mr. Vannet was to leave Paris this morning to go to Virginia in
a vessel bound from Havre to Potomac, I have engaged him to receive the papers which are the
subject of those letters, to take care of them from thence to Havre, and on the voyage; and
when he shall have arrived in Potomac, instead of going directly to Richmond, as he intended,
he will proceed with them himself to New York. I shall pay here all expenses to their delivery
at the ship's side in America, freight included: unless, perhaps, he may find it necessary
to put another covering over them, if he should not be able to get them into the cabin; in
this case, you will have to reimburse him for that. I engage to him that you shall pay him
their transportation from the ship's side to New York, and his own reasonable expenses from
the place of his landing to New York, and back to the place of landing. As he takes that journey
for this object only, it would be reasonable that you give him some gratuity for his time and
trouble, and I suppose it would be accepted by him; but I have made no agreement for this.
The papers are contained in a large box and a trunk. They were sent here by Mr. Ast, during
my absence in Holland. When they arrived at the gates of Paris, the officers of the customs
opened the trunk, to see whether it contained dutiable articles; but finding only books and
papers, they concluded the contents of the box to be of the same nature, and did not open that.
You receive it, therefore, as it came from the hands of Mr. Ast. A small trunk, which came
as a third package from Mr. Ast, and which has never been opened, I have put into the great
trunk, without displacing, or ever having touched a single paper, except as far as was necessary
to make room for that. I shall have the whole corded and plumbed by the Custom-house here,
not only to prevent their being opened at the Custom-houses on the road, and at the port of
exportation, but to prove to you, whether they shall have been opened by any body else after
going out of my hands. If the stamped leads are entire, and the cords uncut, when you receive
them, you will be sure they have not been opened; they will be wrapt in oil-cloth here to guard
them against the damps of the sea; and, as I mentioned before, Mr. Vannet will put them under
another covering, if he finds it necessary, at Havre.

At the same time with your last letter, I received from the office of Foreign Affairs the ratification
by Congress of the loan of 1788, for another million of guilders. As the necessity of this
loan resulted from the estimate made by Mr. Adams and myself, which estimate was laid before
Congress, I suppose their ratification of the loan implies that of the estimate. One article
of this was for the redemption of our captives at Algiers. Though your letter says nothing
on this subject, I am in hopes you have sent orders to the commissioners of the loans at Amsterdam
to furnish, as soon as they shall have it, what may be necessary for this pressing call. So
also for the foreign officers. If the ratification of the loan has been made by Congress, with
a view to fulfil the objects of the estimate, a general order from you to the commissioners
of the loans at Amsterdam, to pay the monies from time to time, according to that estimate,
or to such other as you shall furnish them with, might save the trouble of particular orders
on every single occasion, and the disappointments arising from the delay or miscarriage of
such orders: but it is for you to decide on this.

Paris, September 11, 1788.

Sir,

In the course of the last war, the house of Schweighaeuser and Dobree of Nantes, and Puchilberg
of L'Orient, presented to Dr. Franklin a demand against the United States of America. He, being
acquainted with the circumstances of the demand, and knowing it to be unfounded, refused to
pay it. They thereupon procured seizure, by judiciary authority, of certain arms and other
military stores which we had purchased in this country, and had deposited for embarkation at
Nantes: and these stores have remained in that position ever since. Congress have lately instructed
me to put an end to this matter. Unwilling to trouble your Excellency, whenever it can be avoided,
I proposed to the parties to have the question decided by arbitrators, to be chosen by us jointly.
They have refused it, as you will see by their answers to my letters, copies of both which
I have the honor to enclose you. I presume it to be well settled in practice, that the property
of one sovereign is not permitted to be seized within the dominions of another; and that this
practice is founded not only in mutual respect, but in mutual utility. To what the contrary
practice would lead, is evident in the present case, wherein military stores have been stopped,
in the course of a war, in which our greatest difficulties proceeded from the want of military
stores. In their letter, too, they make a merit of not having seized one of our ships of war,
and certainly the principle which admits the seizure of arms, would admit that of a whole fleet,
and would often furnish an enemy the easiest means of defeating an expedition. The parties
obliging me, then, to have recourse to your Excellency on this occasion, I am under the necessity
of asking an order from you for the immediate delivery of the stores and other property of
the United States at Nantes, detained by the house of Schweighaeuser and Dobree, and that of
Puchilberg, or by either of them, under a pretence of a judicial seizure.

Sir,

Paris, September 16, 1788.

I have the honor now to enclose you my observations on the alteration proposed in the consular
convention. There remain only three articles of those heretofore in question between us, to
which I am unable to agree; that is to say, the second, proposing still to retain personal
immunities for the consuls, and others attached to their office; the eighth, proposing that
the navigation code of each nation shall be established in the territories of the other; and
the ninth, insisting that the ship's roll shall be conclusive evidence that a person belongs
to the ship.

There are several new matters introduced into the draught: some of these are agreed to; others
cannot be admitted, as being contrary to the same principles which had obliged me to disagree
to some of the former articles. The greatest part of the eleventh, and the whole of the twelfth
new articles, are in this predicament. They propose, that no person shall be arrested on board
a merchant vessel, for any cause, but in presence of the consul; that no such vessel shall
be visited, but in his presence; and that when the officers of justice have reason to believe
that a criminal has taken refuge on board a vessel of war, the captain's word shall be conclusive
evidence that he is not there.

To the objections which I had the honor of stating in my letter to his Excellency, the Count
de Montmorin, I have now that of adding some other observations, of which I request your perusal.
I enclose with them a draught, on the basis of the one you were pleased to give me, altered
so as to reconcile it to the spirit of our laws.

Paris, September 16,1788.

Sir,

On receiving the first letters which you did me the honor to write to me on the arrears due
to you from the United States, I informed you that I had nothing to do in the money department;
that the subject of your letters belonged altogether to the treasury board, and to Mr. Grand,
their banker here, to the former of whom I forwarded your letters. As I felt an anxiety, however,
that the foreign officers should be paid, I took the liberty of pressing the treasury board,
from time to time, to exert themselves for that effect; and I availed myself of an opportunity
which occurred last spring, of setting on foot measures, which, with their approbation, might
furnish the means of effecting this payment. So far my information to you went, and I added
a supposition, that the treasury board would probably give orders on the subject, in the course
of the month of July. But I made you no promise; it would have been strange if I had; nor does
my office, nor any thing I have ever said or done, subject me to the demand of immediate payment,
which you are pleased to make on me, nor call on me for any declaration or answer, positive
or negative.

Finding that my interference, which was friendly only, and avowed to be inofficial, has given
occasion to your letter of yesterday, in a style which I did not expect, and to which I can
have no motive for further exposing myself, I must take the liberty of desiring that the correspondence
between us on this subject may cease. I presume that the certificate given you points out the
person, here or elsewhere, to whom your applications are to be made, and that he will inform
you when he receives orders on your subject.

I am, Sir, your humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CLXIII.--TO WILLIAM SHORT, September 20, 1788

TO WILLIAM SHORT.

Paris, September 20, 1788.

Dear Sir,

The evening of your departure, a letter came by the way of London and New York, addressed to
you, and probably from Virginia. I think you wished your American letters to remain here; I
shall therefore keep it. The passport now enclosed came the day after your departure; so also
did a mass of American letters for me, as low down as August the 10th. I shall give you their
substance. The convention of Virginia annexed to their ratification of the new constitution
a copy of the State declaration of rights, not by way of condition, but to announce their attachment
to them. They added also propositions for specific alterations of the constitution. Among these
was one for rendering the President incapable of serving more than eight years, in any term
of sixteen. New York has followed the example of Virginia, expressing the substance of her
bill of rights (that is, Virginia's), and proposing amendments: these last differ much from
those of Virginia; but they concur as to the President, only proposing that he shall be incapable
of being elected more than twice. But I own I should like better than either of these, what
Luther Martin tells us was repeatedly voted and adhered to by the federal convention, and only
altered about twelve days before their rising, when some members had gone off; to wit, that
he should be elected for seven years, and incapable for ever after. But New York has taken
another step, which gives uneasiness; she has written a circular letter to all the legislatures,
asking their concurrence in an immediate convention for making amendments. No news yet from
North Carolina. Electors are to be chosen the first Wednesday in January; the President to
be elected the first Wednesday in February; the new legislature to meet the third week in March:--the
place is not yet decided on. Philadelphia was first proposed, and had six and a half votes;
the half vote was Delaware, one of whose members wanted to take a vote on Wilmington; then
Baltimore was proposed and carried, and afterwards rescinded: so that the matter stood open
as ever on the 10th of August; but it was allowed the dispute lay only between New York and
Philadelphia, and rather thought in favor of the last. The Rhode Island Delegates had retired
from Congress. Dr. Franklin was dangerously ill of the gout and stone on the 21st of July.
My letters of August the 10th not mentioning him, I hope he was recovered. Warville, &c. were
arrived. Congress had referred the decision, as to the independence of Kentucky, to the new
government. Brown ascribes this to the jealousy of the northern States, who want Vermont to
be received at the same time, in order to preserve a balance of interests in Congress. He was
just setting out for Kentucky, disgusted, yet disposed to persuade to an acquiescence, though
doubting they would immediately separate from the Union. The principal obstacle to this, he
thought, would be the Indian war.

The following is a quotation from a letter from Virginia, dated July the 12th. 'P------n, though
much impaired in health, and in every respect in the decline of life, showed as much zeal to
carry the new constitution, as if he had been a young man; perhaps more than he discovered
in the commencement of the late revolution,in his opposition to Great Britain. W------e acted
as chairman to the committee of the whole, and of course took but little part in the debate;
but was for the adoption, relying on subsequent amendments. B------r said nothing, but was
for it. The G------r exhibited a curious spectacle to view. Having refused to sign the paper,
every body supposed him against it; but he afterwards had written a letter, and having taken
a part, which might be called rather vehement than active, he was constantly laboring to show,
that his present conduct was consistent with that letter, and that letter with his refusal
to sign. M--d--n took the principal share in the debate for it; in which, together with the
aid I have already mentioned, he was somewhat assisted by I--nn--s, Lee, M------l, C------n,
and G. N------s. M--s--n, H------y, and Gr------n were the principal supporters of the opposition.
The discussion, as might be expected, where the parties were so nearly on a balance, was conducted
generally with great order, propriety, and respect of either party to the other.'

The assembly of Virginia, hurried to their harvests, would not enter into a discussion of the
district bill, but suspended it to the next session. E. Winston is appointed a judge, vice
Gabriel Jones, resigned. R. Goode and Andrew Moore, Counsellors, vice B. Starke, dead, and
Joseph Egglestone, resigned. It is said Wilson, of Philadelphia, is talked of to succeed Mr.
A. in London. Quære?

The dispute about Virgil's tomb and the laurel, seems to be at length settled, by the testimony
of two travellers, given separately, and without a communication with each other. These both
say, that attempting to pluck off a branch of the laurel, it followed their hand, being, in
fact, nothing more than a plant or bough recently cut, and stuck in the ground for the occasion.
The Cicerone acknowledged the roguery, and said they practised it with almost every traveller,
to get money. You will, of course, tug well at the laurel which shall be shown you, to see
if this be the true solution.

The President Dupaty is dead. Monsieur de Barentin, prémier president de la cour des aides,
is appointed Garde des Sceaux. The stocks are rather lower than when you left this. Present
me in the most friendly terms to Messrs. Shippen and Rutledge. I rely on your communicating
to them the news, and, therefore, on their pardoning me for not repeating it in separate letters
to them. You can satisfy them how necessary this economy of my time and labor is. This goes
to Geneva poste restante. I shall not write again till you tell me where to write to.

Accept very sincere assurances of the affection, with which I am, Dear Sir, your friend and
servant,

Th; Jefferson.

LETTER CLXIV.--TO JOHN JAY, September 24,1788

TO JOHN JAY.

Paris, September 24,1788.

Sir,

Understanding that the vessel is not yet sailed from Havre, which is to carry my letters of
the 3rd and 5th instant, I am in hopes you will receive the present with them. The Russian
accounts of their victories on the Black Sea must have been greatly exaggerated. According
to these, the Captain Pacha's fleet was annihilated; yet themselves have lately brought him
on the stage again, with fifteen ships of the line, in order to obtain another victory over
him. I believe the truth to be, that he has suffered some checks, of what magnitude it is impossible
to say, where one side alone is heard, and that he is still master of that sea. He has relieved
Oczakow, which still holds out; Choczim also is still untaken, and the Emperor's situation
is apprehended to be bad. He spun his army into a long cord, to cover several hundred miles
of frontier, which put it in the power of the Turks to attack with their whole force wherever
they pleased. Laudon, now called to head the imperial army, is endeavoring to collect it; but
in the mean time the campaign is drawing to a close, and has been worse than fruitless. The
resistance of Russia to Sweden has been successful in every point by sea and land, This, with
the interference of Denmark, and the discontent of the Swedish nation; at the breach of their
constitution, by the King's undertaking an offensive war without the consent of the Senate,
has obliged him to withdraw his attacks by land, and to express a willingness for peace; one
third of his officers have refused to serve. England and Prussia have offered their mediation
between Sweden and Russia, in such equivocal terms, as to leave themselves at liberty to say
it was an offer, or was not, just as it shall suit them. Denmark is asking the counter-offer
of mediation from this court. If England and Prussia make a peace effectually in the north
(which it is absolutely in their power to do), it will be a proof they do not intend to enter
into the war; if they do not impose a peace, I should suspect they mean to engage themselves;
as one can hardly suppose they would let the war go on in its present form, wherein Sweden
must be crushed between Russia and Denmark.

The Garde des Sceaux, M. de Lamoignon, was dismissed the 14th instant, and M. de Barentin is
appointed in his room. The deputies of Bretagne are released from the Bastile, and M. d'Epermesnil
and M. Sabatier recalled from their confinement. The parliament is not yet reinstated; but
it is confidently said it will be this week. The stocks continue low, and the treasury under
a hard struggle to keep the government in motion. It is believed the meeting of the States
General will be as early as January, perhaps December. I have received a duplicate of the ratification
of the loan of 1788, by Congress, and a duplicate of a letter of July the 22nd, from the treasury
board, on another subject, but none on that of the captives, or foreign officers. I suppose
some cause of delay must have intervened between the ratification of Congress, and the consequent
orders of the treasury board.

Paris, October 1, 1788

Sir,

I have now the honor of enclosing to you a copy of the letter of September the 16th, which
I had that of writing to his Excellency the Count de Montmorin, with the papers therein referred
to, and of soliciting the order I have asked for. The originals were sent at the date before
mentioned. Notwithstanding the refusal of the houses of Schweighaeuser and Dobree, and of Puchilberg,
to settle their claim against the United States by arbitration, as I proposed to them, the
United States will still be ready to do them justice. But those houses must first retire from
the only two propositions they have ever made; to wit, either a payment of their demand without
discussion, or a discussion before the tribunals of the country. In the mean time, I shall
hope an acknowledgment with respect to us, of the principle which holds as to other nations;
that our public property here cannot be seized by the territorial judge. It is the more interesting
to us, as we shall be more and longer exposed than other nations, to draw arms and military
stores from Europe. Our preference of this country has occasioned us to draw them from hence
alone, since the peace: and the friendship we have constantly experienced from the government,
will, we doubt not, on this and every other occasion, insure to us the protection of what we
purchase. I have the honor to be, Sir, your friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CLXVI.--TO MR. CUTTING, October 2, 1788

TO MR. CUTTING.

Paris, October 2, 1788.

Dear Sir,

I am now to acknowledge the receipt of your favors of the 16th and 23rd ultimo and to thank
you for the intelligence they conveyed. That respecting the case of the interrogatories in
Pennsylvania, ought to make noise. So evident a heresy in the common law ought not to be tolerated
on the authority of two or three civilians, who happened, unfortunately, to make authority
in the courts of England. I hold it essential, in America, to forbid that any English decision
which has happened since the accession of Lord Mansfield to the bench, should ever be cited
in a court: because, though there have come many good ones from him, yet there is so much sly
poison instilled into a great part of them, that it is better to proscribe the whole. Can you
inform me what has been done by England on the subject of our wheat and flour? The papers say
it is prohibited, even in Hanover. How do their whale-fisheries turn out, this year? I hope
a deep wound will be given them in that article soon, and such as will leave us in no danger
from their competition.

Paris, November 14, 1788.

Sir,

In my letter of December the 21st, 1787, I had the honor of acknowledging the receipts of your
two favors of July the 27th, 1787, which had come to my hands December the 19th, and brought
with them my full powers for treating on the subject of the consular convention. Being then
much engaged in getting forward the Arrêt which came out the 29th of December, and willing
to leave some interval between that act, and the solicitation of a reconsideration of our consular
convention, I had declined mentioning it, for some time, and was just about to bring it on
the carpet, when it became necessary for me to go to Amsterdam. Immediately after my return,
which was about the last of April, I introduced the subject to the Count de Montmorin, and
have followed it unremittingly, from that time. The office of Marine, as well as that of Foreign
Affairs, being to be consulted in all the stages of the negotiation, has protracted its conclusions
till this time: it is at length signed this day, and I have now the honor to enclose the original,
for the ratification of Congress. The principal changes effected are the following:

The clauses of the Convention of 1784, clothing consuls with privileges of the law of nations,
are struck out, and they are expressly subjected, in their persons and property, to the laws
of the land.

That giving the right of sanctuary to their houses, is reduced to a protection of their chancery
room and its papers.

Their coercive powers over passengers are taken away; and over those, whom they might have
termed deserters of their nation, are restrained to deserted seamen only.

The clause, allowing them to arrest and send back vessels, is struck out, and instead of it,
they are allowed to exercise a police over the ships of their nation generally.

So is that, which declared the indelibility of the character of subject, and the explanation
and extension of the eleventh article of the treaty of amity.

The innovations in the laws of evidence are done away: and the convention is limited to twelve
years' duration. Convinced that the fewer examples, the better, of either persons or causes
unamenable to the laws of the land, I could have wished, still more had been done; but more
could not be done, with good humor. The extensions of authority given by the convention of
1784, were so homogeneous with the spirit of this government, that they were prized here. Monsieur
de Reyneval has had the principal charge of arranging this instrument with me; and, in justice
to him, I must say, I could not have desired more reasonable and friendly dispositions, than
he demonstrated through the whole of it.

I enclose herewith the several schemes successively proposed between us, together with the
copies of the written observations given in with them, and which served as texts of discussion,
in our personal conferences. They may serve as a commentary on any passage which may need it,
either now or hereafter, and as a history how any particular passage comes to stand as it does.
No. 1. is the convention of 1784. No. 2. is my first scheme. No. 3. theirs in answer to it.
No. 4. my next, which brought us so near together, that, in a conference on that, we arranged
it in the form in which it has been signed. I add No. 5. the copy of a translation which I
have put into their hands, with a request, that if they find any passages in which the sense
of the original is not faithfully rendered, they will point them out to me; otherwise, we may
consider it as having their approbation. This, and the convention of 1784, (marked No. 1.)
are placed side by side, so as to present to the eye, with less trouble, the changes made;
and I enclose a number of printed copies of them, for the use of the members, who will have
to decide on the ratification. It is desirable that the ratification should be sent here for
exchange, as soon as possible. This was intended as a general answer to that swarm of foreign
pretenders. It appears to me, that it will be best, still to preserve a part of this regulation.
Their disadvantages are, an imperfect acquaintance with the language of this country, and an
ignorance of the organization of its judicial and executive powers, and consequent awkwardness,
whenever application to either of these is necessary, as it frequently is. But it happens,
that in some of the principal ports of France, there is not a single American (as in Marseilles,
L'Orient, and Havre), in others but one (as in Nantes and Rouen), and in Bordeaux only, are
there two or three. Fortunately for the present moment, most of these are worthy of appointments.
But we should look forward to future times, when there may happen to be no native citizens
in a port, but such as, being bankrupt, have taken asylum in France from their creditors, or
young ephemeral adventurers in commerce, without substance or conduct, or other descriptions,
which might disgrace the consular office, without protecting our commerce. This is the rule
of 1784, restrained to the office of consul, and to native citizens. The establishing this,
by a standing law, will guard against the effect of particular applications, and will shut
the door against such applications, which will otherwise be numerous. This done, the office
of vice-consul may be given to the best subject in the port, whether citizen or alien, and
that of consul, be kept open for any native citizen of superior qualifications, who might come
afterwards to establish himself in the port. The functions of the vice-consul would become
dormant during the presence of his principal, come into activity again on his departure, and
thus spare us and them the painful operation of revoking and reviving their commissions perpetually.
Add to this, that during the presence of the consul, the vice-consul would not be merely useless,
but would be a valuable counsellor to his principal, new in the office, the language, laws,
and customs of the country. Every consul and vice-consul should be restrained in his jurisdiction,
to the port for which he is named, and the territory nearer to that than to any other consular
or vice-consular port, and no idea be permitted to arise, that the grade of consul gives a
right to any authority whatever over a vice-consul, or draws on any dependence.

It is now proper I should give some account of the state of our dispute with Schweighaeuser
and Dobree. In the conversation I had with Dobree, at Nantes, he appeared to think so rationally
on this subject, that I thought there would be no difficulty in accommodating it with him,
and I wished rather to settle it by accommodation, than to apply to the minister. I afterwards
had it intimated to him, through the medium of Mr. Carnes, that I had it in idea, to propose
a reference to arbitrators. He expressed a cheerful concurrence in it. I thereupon made the
proposition to him formally, by letter, mentioning particularly, that we would choose our arbitrators
of some neutral nation, and, of preference, from among the Dutch refugees here. I was surprised
to receive an answer from him, wherein, after expressing his own readiness to accede to this
proposition, he added, that on consulting Mr. Puchilberg, he had declined it; nevertheless,
he wished a fuller explanation from me, as to the subjects to be submitted to arbitration.
I gave him that explanation, and he answered finally, that Mr. Puchilberg refused all accommodation,
and insisted that the matter should be decided by the tribunals of the country. Accommodation
being at an end, I wrote to Monsieur de Montmorin, and insisted on the usage of nations, which
does not permit the effects of one sovereign, to be seized in the territories of another, and
subjected to judiciary decision there. I am promised that the stores shall be delivered; but
the necessary formalities will occasion some delay. The King being authorized to call all causes
before himself, ours will be evoked from the tribunal where it is, and will be ended by an
order to deliver up the stores arrested, leaving it to the justice of Congress, to do afterwards
what is right, as to the demand of Schweighaeuser and Dobree. I wish I could receive instructions
what to do with the stores, when delivered. The arms had certainly better be sent to America,
as they are good, and yet will sell here for little or nothing. The gun-stocks and old iron
had better be sold here; but what should be done with the anchors? Being thoroughly persuaded
that Congress wish that substantial justice should be done to Schweighaeuser and Dobree, I
shall, after the stores are secured, repeat my proposition of arbitration to them. If they
then refuse it, I shall return all the papers to America, and consider my powers for settling
this matter as at an end.

I have received no answer yet from Denmark on the subject of the prizes; nor do I know whether
to ascribe this silence to an intention to evade the demand, or to the multitude of affairs
they have had on their hands lately. Patience seems to be prudence, in this case; to indispose
them, would do no good, and might do harm. I shall write again soon, if no answer be received
in the mean time.

     [The following is the translation of the convention referred
     to as No. 5. in the preceding letter.]

Convention between his Most Christian Majesty and the United States of America, for the purpose
of defining and establishing the Functions and Privileges of their respective Consuls and Vice-Consuls.

His Majesty the Most Christian King, and the United States of America, having, by the twenty-ninth
article of the treaty of amity and commerce concluded between them, mutually granted the liberty
of having, in their respective States and ports, Consuls, Vice-Consuls, Agents, and Commissaries,
and being willing, in consequence thereof, to define and establish, in a reciprocal and permanent
manner, the functions and privileges of Consuls and Vice-Consuls, which they have judged it
convenient to establish of preference, his M. C. Majesty has nominated the Sieur Count of Montmorin
of St. Herent, Marechal of his Camps and Armies, Knight of his Orders and of the Golden Fleece,
his Counsellor in all his Councils, Minister and Secretary of State, and of his Commandments
and Finances, having the department of foreign affairs, and the United States have nominated
Thomas Jefferson, citizen of the United States of America and their Minister Plenipotentiary
near the King, who after having communicated to each other their respective full powers, have
agreed on what follows:

Article I. The Consuls and Vice-Consuls named by the M. C. K. and the United States, shall
be bound to present their commissions according to the forms which shall be established respectively
by the M. C. K. within his dominions, and by the Congress within the United States; there shall
be delivered to them, without any charges, the Exequatur necessary for the exercise of their
functions; and on exhibiting the said Exequatur, the governors, commanders, heads of justice,
bodies corporate, tribunals, and other officers having authority in the ports and places of
their consulates, shall cause them to enjoy immediately, and without difficulty, the pre-eminences,
authority, and privileges, reciprocally granted, without exacting from the said Consuls and
Vice-Consuls any fee, under any pretext whatever.

Article II. The Consuls and Vice-Consuls, and persons attached to their functions, that is
to say, their chancellors and secretaries, shall enjoy a full and entire immunity for their
chancery and the papers which shall be therein contained: they shall be exempt from aU, personal
service, from soldiers' billets, militia, watch, guard, guardianship, trusteeship, as well
as from all duties, taxes, impositions, and charges whatsoever, except on the estate real and
personal of which they may be the proprietors or possessors, which shall be subject to the
taxes imposed on the estates of all other individuals: and in all other instances they shall
be subject to the laws of the land, as the natives are.

Those of the said Consuls and Vice-Consuls who shall exercise commerce, shall be respectively
subject to all taxes, charges, and impositions established on other merchants.

They shall place over the outward door of their house the arms of their sovereign: but this
mark of indication shall not give to the said house any privilege of asylum for any person
or property whatsoever.

Article III. The respective Consuls and Vice-Consuls may establish agents in the different
ports and places of their departments, where necessity shall require. These agents maybe chosen
among the merchants, either national or foreign, and furnished with a commission from one of
the said Consuls; they shall confine themselves respectively to the rendering to their respective
merchants, navigators, and vessels, all possible service, and to inform the nearest Consul
of the wants of the said merchants, navigators, and vessels, without the said agents otherwise
participating in the immunities, rights, and privileges attributed to Consuls and Vice-Consuls,
and without power, under any pretext whatever, to exact from the said merchants any duty or
emolument whatsoever.

Article IV. The Consuls and Vice-Consuls respectively, may establish a chancery, where shall
be deposited the consular determinations, acts, and proceedings, as also testaments, obligations,
contracts, and other acts done by or between persons of their nation, and effects left by decedents,
or saved from shipwreck.

They may, consequently, appoint fit persons to act in the said chancery, qualify and swear
them in, commit to them the custody of the seal, and authority to seal commissions, sentences,
and other consular acts, and also to discharge the functions of notaries and registers of the
consulate.

Article V. The Consuls and Vice-Consuls respectively, shall have the exclusive right of receiving
in their chancery, or on board their vessels, the declarations and all other the acts which
the captains, masters, crews, passengers, and merchants of their nation may choose to make
there, even their testaments and other disposals by last will: and the copies of the said acts,
duly authenticated by the said Consuls or Vice-Consuls, under the seal of their consulate,
shall receive faith in law, equally as their originals would, in all the tribunals of the dominions
of the M. C. King and of the United States.

They shall also have, and exclusively, in case of the absence of the testamentary executor,
guardian, or lawful representative, the right to inventory, liquidate, and proceed to the sale
of the personal estate left by subjects or citizens of their nation, who shall die within the
extent of their consulate; they shall proceed therein with the assistance of two merchants
of their said nation, or, for want of them, of any other at their choice, and shall cause to
be deposited in their chancery, the effects and papers of the said estates; and no officer,
military, judiciary, or of the police of the country, shall disturb them or interfere therein,
in any manner whatsoever: but the said Consuls and Vice-Consuls shall not deliver up the said
effects, nor the proceeds thereof, to the lawful representatives or to their order, till they
shall have caused to be paid all debts which the deceased shall have contracted in the country;
for which purpose the creditor shall have a right to attach the said effects in their hands,
as they might in those of any other individual whatever, and proceed to obtain sale of them,
till payment of what shall be lawfully due to them. When the debts shall not have been contracted
by judgment, deed, or note, the signature whereof shall be known, payment shall not be ordered,
but on the creditor's giving sufficient surety resident in the country, to refund the sums
he shall have unduly received, principal, interest, and costs; which surety, nevertheless,
shall stand duly discharged after the term of one year, in time of peace, and of two, in time
of war, if the discharge cannot be formed before the end of this term, against the* representatives
who shall present themselves.

And in order that the representatives may not be unjustly kept out of the effects of the deceased,
the Consuls and Vice-Consuls shall notify his death in some one of the gazettes published within
their consulate, and that they shall retain the said effects in their hands four months, to
answer all just demands which shall be presented; and they shall be bound, after this delay,
to deliver to the persons succeeding thereto, what shall be more than sufficient for the demands
which shall have been formed.

Article VI. The Consuls and Vice-Consuls, respectively, shall receive the declarations, protests,
and reports of all captains and masters of their respective nations, on account of average
losses sustained at sea; and these captains and masters shall lodge in the chancery of the
said Consuls and Vice-Consuls, the acts which they may have made in other ports, on account
of the accidents which may have happened to them on their voyage. If a subject of the M. C.
K. and a citizen of the United States, or a foreigner, are interested in the said cargo, the
average shall be settled by the tribunals of the country, and not by the Consuls or Vice-Consuls;
but when only the subjects or citizens of their own nation shall be interested, the respective
Consuls or Vice-Consuls shall appoint skilful persons to settle the damages and average.

Article VII. In cases where by tempest, or other accident, French ships or vessels shall be
stranded on the coasts of the United States, and ships or vessels of the United States shall
be stranded on the coasts of the dominions of the M. C. K.,the Consul or Vice-Consul nearest
to the place of shipwreck shall do whatever he may judge proper, as well for the purpose of
saving the said ship or vessel, its cargo and appurtenances, as for the storing and the security
of the effects and merchandise saved. He may take an inventory of them, without the intermeddling
of any officers of the military, of the customs, of justice, or of the police of the country,
otherwise than to give to the Consuls, Vice-Consuls, captain, and crew of the vessels shipwrecked
or stranded, all the succor and favor which they shall ask of them, either for the expedition
and security of the saving and of the effects saved, as to prevent all disturbance.

And in order to prevent all kind of dispute and discussion in the said cases of shipwreck,
it is agreed that when there shall be no Consul or Vice-Consul to attend to the saving of the
wreck, or that the residence of the said Consul or Vice-Consul (he not being at the place of
the wreck) shall be more distant from the said place than that of the competent judge of the
country, the latter shall immediately proceed therein, with all the despatch, certainty, and
precautions, prescribed by the respective laws; but the said territorial judge shall retire,
on the arrival of the Consul or Vice-Consul, and shall deliver over to him the report of his
proceedings, the expenses of which the Consul and Vice-Consul shall cause to be reimbursed
to him, as well as those of saving the wreck.

The merchandise and effects saved, shall be deposited in the nearest Custom-house, or other
place of safety, with the inventory thereof, which shall have been made by the Consul or Vice-Consul,
or by the judge who shall have proceeded in their absence, that the said effects and merchandise
may be afterwards delivered (after levying therefrom the costs), and without form of process,
to the owners, who, being furnished with an order for their delivery, from the nearest Consul
or Vice-Consul, shall reclaim them by themselves, or by their order, either for the purpose
of re-exporting such merchandise, in which case, they shall-pay no kind of duty of exportation,
or for that of selling them in the country, if they be not prohibited there; and in this last
case, the said merchandise, if they be damaged, shall be allowed an abatement of entrance duties,
proportioned to the damage they have sustained, which shall be ascertained by the affidavits
taken at the time the vessel was wrecked or struck.

Article VIII. The Consuls and Vice-Consuls shall exercise police over all the vessels of their
respective nations, and shall have on board the said vessels, all power and jurisdiction in
civil matters, in all the disputes which may there arise; they shall have an entire inspection
over the said vessels, their crew, and the changes and substitutions there to be made. For
which purpose they may go on board the said vessels whenever they may judge it necessary: well
understood, that the functions hereby allowed shall be confined to the interior of the vessels,
and that they shall not take place in any case, which shall have any interference with the
police of the ports where the said vessels shall be.

Article IX. The Consuls and Vice-Consuls may cause to be arrested the captains, officers, mariners,
sailors, and all other persons, being part of the crews of the vessels of their respective
nations, who shall have deserted from the said vessels, in order to send them back, and transport
them out of the country. For which purpose, the said Consuls and Vice-Consuls shall address
themselves to the courts, judges, and officers competent, and shall demand the said deserters
in writing, proving by an exhibition of the registers of the vessel or ship's roll, that those
men were part of the said crews: and on this demand, so proved (saving, however, where the
contrary is proved), the delivery shall not be refused¦; and there shall be given all aid and
assistance to the said Consuls and Vice-Consuls, for the search, seizure, and arrest of the
said deserters, who shall even be detained and kept in the prisons of the country, at their
request and expense, until they shall have found an opportunity of sending them back. But if
they be not sent back within three months, to be counted from the day of their arrest, they
shall be set at liberty, and shall be no more arrested for the same cause.

Article X. In cases where the respective subjects, or citizens, shall have committed any crime,
or breach of the peace, they shall be amenable to the judges of the country.

Article XI. When the said offenders shall be a part of the crew of a vessel of their nation,
and shall have withdrawn themselves on board the said vessel, they may be there seized and
arrested by order of the judges of the country: these shall give notice thereof to the Consul
or Vice-Consul, who may repair on board, if he thinks proper: but this notification shall not,
in any case, delay execution of the order in question. The persons arrested shall not afterwards
be set at liberty, until the Consul or Vice-Consul shall have been notified thereof; and they
shall be delivered to him, if he requires it, to be put again onboard of the vessel on which
they were arrested, or of others of their nation, and to be sent out of the country.

Article XII. All differences and suits between the subjects of the M. C. K. in the U. S., or
between the citizens of the United States within the dominions of the M. C. K. and particularly
all disputes relative to the wages and terms of engagement of the crews of the respective vessels,
and all differences of whatever nature they be, which may arise between the privates of the
said crews, or between any of them and their captains, or between the captains of different
vessels of their nation, shall be determined by the respective Consuls and Vice-Consuls, either
by a reference to arbitrators, or by a summary judgment, and without costs.

No officer of the country, civil or military, shall interfere therein, or take any part whatever
in the matter: and the appeals from the said consular sentences shall be carried before the
tribunals of France or of the United States, to whom it may appertain to take cognizance thereof.

Article XIII. The general utility of commerce, having caused to be established within the dominions
of the M. C. K. particular tribunals and forms, for expediting the decision of commercial affairs,
the merchants of the U. S. shall enjoy the benefit of these establishments; and the Congress
of the U. S. will provide in the manner the most conformable to its laws, equivalent advantages
in favor of the French merchants, for the prompt despatch and decision of affairs of the same
nature.

Article XIV. The subjects of the M. C. K. and citizens of the U. S. who shall prove by legal
evidence, that they are of the said nations respectively, shall, in consequence, enjoy an exemption
from all personal service in the place of their settlement.

Article XV. If any other nation acquires, by virtue of any convention whatever, a treatment
more favorable with respect to the consular pre-eminences, powers, authority, and privileges,
the Consuls and Vice-Consuls of the M. C. K. or of the U. S., reciprocally, shall participate
therein, agreeably to the terms stipulated by the second, third, and fourth articles of the
treaty of amity and commerce, concluded between the M. C. K. and the U. S.

Article XVI.

In faith whereof, we, Ministers Plenipotentiary, have signed the present convention, and have
thereto set the seal of our arms.

Done at Versailles, the 14th of November, one thousand seven hundred and eighty eight.

L. C. De MONTMORIN. L. S.

Signed.

Th: Jefferson. L. S.

LETTER CLXVIII.--TO JAMES MADISON, November 18, 1788

TO JAMES MADISON.

Paris, November 18, 1788.

Dear Sir,

My last to you was of the 31st of July; since which, I have received yours of July the 24th,
August the 10th, and 23rd. The first part of this long silence in me was occasioned by a knowledge
that you were absent from New York; the latter part, by a want of opportunity, which has been
longer than usual. Mr. Shippen being just arrived here, and to set out to-morrow for London,
I avail myself of that channel of conveyance. Mr. Carrington was so kind as to send me the
second volume of the American Philosophical Transactions, the Federalist, and some other interesting
pamphlets; and I am to thank you for another copy of the Federalist, and the report of the
instructions to the ministers for negotiating peace. The latter unluckily omitted exactly the
passage I wanted, which was what related to the navigation of the Mississippi. With respect
to the Federalist, the three authors had been named to me. I read it with care, pleasure, and
improvement, and was satisfied there was nothing in it by one of those hands, and not a great
deal by a second. It does the highest honor to the third, as being, in my opinion, the best
commentary on the principles of government, which ever was written. In some parts, it is discoverable
that the author means only to say what may be best said in defence of opinions, in which he
did not concur. But in general, it establishes firmly the plan of government. I confess, it
has rectified me on several points. As to the bill of rights, however, I still think it should
be added; and I am glad to see, that three States have at length considered the perpetual re-eligibility
of the President, as an article which should be amended. I should deprecate with you, indeed,
the meeting of a new convention. I hope they will adopt the mode of amendment by Congress and
the Assemblies, in which case, I should not fear any dangerous innovation in the plan. But
the minorities are too respectable, not to be entitled to some sacrifice of opinion in the
majority; especially, when a great proportion of them would be contented with a bill of rights.
Here, things internally, are going on well. The Notables now in session, have, indeed, passed
one vote, which augurs ill to the rights of the people; but if they do not obtain now so much
as they have a right to, they will in the long run. The misfortune is, that they are not yet
ripe for receiving the blessings to which they are entitled. I doubt, for instance, whether
the body of the nation, if they could be consulted, would accept of a habeas corpus law, if
offered them by the King. If the Etats Generaux, when they assemble, do not aim at too much,
they may begin a good constitution. There are three articles which they may easily obtain;
1. their own meeting, periodically; 2. the exclusive right of taxation; 3. the right of registering
laws and proposing amendments to them, as exercised now by the parliaments. This last would
be readily approved by the court, on account of their hostility against the parliaments, and
would lead immediately to the origination of laws: the second has been already solemnly avowed
by the King; and it is well understood, there would be no opposition to the first. If they
push at much more, all may fail. I shall not enter further into public details, because my
letter to Mr. Jay will give them. That contains a request of permission to return to America
the next spring, for the summer only. The reasons therein urged, drawn from my private affairs,
are very cogent. But there is another, more cogent on my mind, though of a nature not to be
explained in a public letter. It is the necessity of attending my daughters, myself, to their
own country, and depositing them safely in the hands of those, with whom I can safely leave
them. I have deferred this request as long as circumstances would permit, and am in hopes it
will meet with no difficulty. I have had too many proofs of your friendship, not to rely on
your patronage of it, as, in all probability, nothing can suffer by a short absence. But the
immediate permission is what I am anxious about; as by going in April and returning in October,
I shall be sure of pleasant and short passages, out and in. I must intreat your attention,
my friend, to this matter, and that the answers may be sent me through several channels.

Mr. Liniozin, at Havre, sent you, by mistake, a package belonging to somebody else. I do not
know what it contained, but he has written to you on the subject, and prayed me to do the same,
he is likely to suffer if it be not returned.

Supposing that the funding their foreign debt will be among the first operations of the new
government, I send you two estimates; the one by myself, the other by a gentleman infinitely
better acquainted with the subject, showing what fund will suffice to discharge the principal
and interest, as it shall become due, aided by occasional loans, which the same fund will repay.
I enclose them to you, because collating them together, and with your own ideas, you will be
able to advise something better than either; but something must be done. This government will
expect, I fancy, a very satisfactory provision for the payment of their debt, from the first
session of the new Congress. Perhaps, in this matter, as well as the arrangement of your foreign
affairs, I may be able, when on the spot with you, to give some information and suggest some
hints, which may render my visit to my native country not altogether useless. I consider as
no small advantage, the resuming the tone of mind of my constituents, which is lost by long
absence, and can only be recovered by mixing with them; and shall, particularly, hope for much
profit and pleasure, by contriving to pass as much time as possible with you. Should you have
a trip to Virginia in contemplation, for that year, I hope you will time it so as that we may
be there together. I will camp you at Monticello, where, if illy entertained otherwise, you
shall not want books.

Paris, November 18,1788.

Dear Sir,

Often solicited by persons on this side the water, to inquire for their friends in America,
about whose fate they are uncertain, I can only hand on their requests to my friends in America.
The enclosed letter from, the Chevalier de Sigougne desires some inquiry after his brother,
whom he supposes to have settled at Todd's Bridge. As this is within your reach, I must refer
the request to your humanity, and beg of you, if you can hear of him, you will be so good as
to give me an account of him, returning me the enclosed letter at the same time.

The campaign between the Turks and Russians has been tolerably equal. The Austrians have suffered
through the whole of it. By the interposition of Prussia and England, peace is likely to be
made between Russia, Denmark, and Sweden. This is a proof that England does not mean to engage
in the war herself. This country will certainly engage herself in no manner, externally, before
the meeting of her States General. This assembly has been so long disused, that the forms of
its convocation occasion difficulty. The Notables have been convened to prescribe them, and
they are now in session. I am in hopes this will end in giving a good degree of liberty to
this country. They enjoy, at present, the most perfect tranquillity within; their stocks, however,
continue low, and money difficult to be got for current expenses. It is hoped, that Mr. Necker's
talents and popularity, with the aid of a National Assembly, will extricate them from their
difficulties. We have been daily expecting to hear of the death of the King of England: our
last news is of the 11th, when he was thought in the utmost danger. This event might produce
a great change in the situation of things: it is supposed Mr. Fox would come into place, and
he has been generally understood to be disposed for war. Should the King survive, I think the
continuance of peace more probable at present, than it has been for some time past. Be so good
as to contrive the enclosed letter, by a very safe conveyance.

Sir,

Paris, November 19, 1788.

Since my letter of September the 5th, wherein I acknowledged Mr. Remsen's favor of July the
25th, I have written those of September the 24th, and of the 14th instant. This last will accompany
the present, both going by the way of London, for want of a direct opportunity; but they go
by a private hand.

No late event worth notice has taken place between the Turks and Austrians. The former continue
in the territories of the latter, with all the appearances of superiority. On the side of Russia,
the war wears an equal face, except that the Turks are still masters of the Black sea. Oczakow
is not yet taken. Denmark furnished to Russia its stipulated quota of troops with so much alacrity,
and was making such other warlike preparations, that it was believed they meant to become principals
in the war against Sweden. Russia and England hereupon interposed efficaciously. Their ministers
appointed to meditate, gave notice to the court of Copenhagen, that they would declare war
against them in the name of their two sovereigns, if they did not immediately withdraw their
troops from the Swedish territories. The court of London has since said, that their minister
(Elliott) went further in this than he was authorized. However, the Danish troops are retiring.
Poland is augmenting its army from twenty to an hundred thousand men. Nevertheless, it seems
as if England and Prussia meant in earnest to stop the war in that quarter, contented to leave
the two empires in the hands of the Turks. France, desired by Sweden to join the courts of
London and Berlin in their mediation between Sweden and Russia, has declined it. We may be
assured, she will meddle in nothing external before the meeting of the States General. Her
temporary annihilation in the political scale of Europe, leaves to England and Prussia the
splendid roll, of giving the law without meeting the shadow of opposition. The internal tranquillity
of this country is perfect: their stocks, however, continue low, and the difficulty of getting
money to face current expenses very great. In the contest between the King and parliament,
the latter, fearing the power of the former, passed the convoking the States General. The government
found itself obliged by other difficulties, also, to recur to the same expedient. The parliament,
after its recall, showed that it was now become apprehensive of the States General, and discovered
a determination to cavil at their form, so as to have a right to deny their legality, if that
body should undertake to abridge their powers. The court, hereupon, very adroitly determined
to call the same Notables, who had been approved by the nation the last year, to decide on
the form of convoking the Etats Generaux: thus withdrawing itself from the disputes which the
parliament might excite, and committing them with the nation. The Notables are now in session.
The government had manifestly discovered a disposition that the Tiers-Etat, or Commons, should
have as many representatives in the States General, as the Nobility and Clergy together: but
five Bureaux of the Notables have voted by very great majorities, that they should have only
an equal number with each of the other orders singly. One bureau, by a majority of a single
voice, had agreed to give the Commons the double number of representatives. This is the first
symptom of a decided combination between the Nobility and Clergy, and will necessarily throw
the people into the scale of the King. It is doubted, whether the States can be called so early
as January, though the government, urged by the want of money, is for pressing the convocation.
It is still more uncertain what the States will do when they meet: there are three objects
which they may attain, probably without opposition from the court; 1. A periodical meeting
of the States; 2. their exclusive right of taxation; 3. the right of en-registering laws and
proposing amendments to them, as now exercised by the parliaments. This would lead, as it did
in England, to the right of originating laws. The parliament would, by the last measure, be
reduced to a mere judiciary body, and would probably oppose it. But against the King and nation
their opposition could not succeed. If the States stop here, for the present moment, all will
probably end well, and they may, in future sessions, obtain a suppression of lettres de cachet,
a free press, a civil list, and other valuable mollifications of their government. But it is
to be feared, that an impatience to rectify every thing at once, which prevails in some minds,
may terrify the court, and lead them to appeal to force, and to depend on that alone.

Before this can reach you, you will probably have heard of an Arrêt, passed the 28th of September,
for prohibiting the introduction of foreign whale-oils, without exception. The English had
glutted the markets of this country with their oils: it was proposed to exclude them, and an
Arrêt was drawn, with an exception for us: in the last stage of the Arrêt, the exception was
struck out, without my having any warning, or even suspicion of this. I suspect this stroke
came from the Count de la Luzerne, minister of marine; but I cannot affirm it positively. As
soon as I was apprized of this, which was several days after it passed (because it was kept
secret till published in their seaports), I wrote to the Count de Montmorin a letter, of which
the enclosed is a copy, and had conferences on the subject, from time to time, with him and
the other ministers. I found them prepossessed by the partial information of their Dunkirk
fishermen; and therefore thought it necessary to give them a view of the whole subject in writing,
which I did, in the piece, of which I enclose you a printed copy. I therein entered into more
details, than the question between us seemed rigorously to require. I was led to them by other
objects. The most important was to disgust Mr. Necker, as an economist, against their new fishery,
by letting him foresee its expense. The particular manufactures suggested to them, were in
consequence of repeated applications from the shippers of rice and tobacco: other details,
which do not appear immediately pertinent, were occasioned by circumstances which had arisen
in conversation, or an apparent necessity of giving information on the whole matter. At a conference,
in the presence of M. Lambert, on the 16th (where I was ably aided by the Marquis de la Fayette,
as I have been through the whole business), it was agreed to except us from the prohibition.
But they will require rigorous assurance, that the oils coming under our name are really of
our fishery. They fear we shall cover the introduction of the English oils from Halifax. The
Arrêt for excepting us was communicated to me, but the formalities of proving the oils to be
American were not yet inserted. I suppose they will require every vessel to bring a certificate
from their Consul or Vice-Consul residing in the State from which it comes. More difficult
proofs were sometimes talked of. I supposed I might surely affirm to them, that our government
would do whatever it could to prevent this fraud, because it is as much our interest as theirs
to keep the market for the French and American oils only. I am told Massachusetts has prohibited
the introduction of foreign fish-oils into her ports. This law, if well executed, will be an
effectual guard against fraud; and a similar one in the other States, interested in the fishery,
would much encourage this government to continue her indulgence to us. Though the Arrêt, then,
for the re-admission of our oils is not yet passed, I think I may assure you it will be so
in a few days, and of course that this branch of commerce, after so threatening an appearance,
will be on a better footing than ever, as enjoying, jointly with the French oil, a monopoly
of their markets. The continuance of this will depend on the growth of their fishery. Whenever
they become able to supply their own wants, it is very possible they may refuse to take our
oils; but I do not believe it possible for them to raise their fishery to that, unless they
can continue to draw off our fishermen from us. Their seventeen ships, this year, had one hundred
and fifty of our sailors on board. I do not know what number the English have got into their
service. You will readily perceive, that there are particulars in these printed observations,
which it would not be proper to suffer to become public. They were printed, merely that a copy
might be given to each minister, and care has been taken to let them go into no other hands.

I must now trouble Congress with a petition on my own behalf. When I left my own house in October,
1783, it was to attend Congress as a member, and in expectation of returning in five or six
months. In the month of May following, however, I was desired to come to Europe, as member
of a commission, which was to continue two years only. I came off immediately, without going
home to make any other arrangements in my affairs, thinking they would not suffer greatly before
I should return to them. Before the close of the two years, Doctor Franklin retiring from his
charge here, Congress were pleased to name me to it; so that I have been led on by events to
an absence of five years, instead of five months. In the mean time, matters of great moment
to others as well as myself, and which can be arranged by nobody but myself, will await no
longer. Another motive, of still more powerful co-agency on my mind, is the necessity of carrying
my family back to their friends and country. I must, therefore, ask of Congress a leave of
short absence. Allowing three months on the sea, going and coming, and two months at my own
house, which will suffice for my affairs, I need not be from Paris but between five and six
months. I do not foresee any thing which can suffer during my absence. The consular convention
is finished, except as to the exchange of ratification, which will be the affair of a day only.
The difference with Schweighaeuser and Dobree, relative to our arms, will be finished. That
of Denmark, if ever finished, will probably be long spun out. The ransom of the Algerine captives
is the only matter likely to be on hand. That cannot be set on foot till the money is raised
in Holland, and an order received for its application: probably these will take place, so that
I may set it into motion, before my departure; if not, I can still leave it on such a footing,
as to be put into motion the moment the money can be paid. And even when the leave of Congress
shall be received, I will not make use of it, if there is any thing of consequence which may
suffer; but would, postpone my departure till circumstances will admit it. But should these
be as I expect they will, it will be vastly desirable to me to receive the permission immediately,
so that I may go out as soon as the vernal equinox is over, and be sure of my return in good
time and season in the fall. Mr. Short, who had had thoughts of returning to America, will
postpone that return till I come back. His talents and character allow me to say, with confidence,
that nothing will suffer in his hands. The friendly dispositions of Monsieur de Montmorin would
induce him readily to communicate with Mr. Short in his present character; but should any of
his applications be necessary to be laid before the Council, they might suffer difficulty:
nor could he attend the diplomatic societies, which are the most certain sources of good intelligence.
Would Congress think it expedient to remove the difficulties, by naming him secretary of legation,
so that he would act of course as chargé des affaires during my absence? It would be just,
that the difference between the salary of a secretary and a secretary of legation should cease,
as soon as he should cease to be charged with the affairs of the United States; that is to
say, on my return: and he would expect that. So that this difference for five or six months
would be an affair of about one hundred and seventy guineas only, which would be not more than
equal to the additional expense that would be brought on him necessarily by the change of character.
I mention these particulars, that Congress may see the end as well as beginning of the proposition,
and have only to add, 'their will be done.' Leave for me being obtained, I will ask it, Sir,
of your friendship, to avail yourself of various occasions to the ports of France and England
to convey me immediate notice of it, and relieve me as soon as possible from the anxiety of
expectation, and the uncertainty in which I shall be. We have been in daily expectation of
hearing of the death of the King of England. Our latest news are of the 11th. He had then been
despaired of for three or four days; but as my letter is to pass through England, you will
have later accounts of him than that can give you. I send you the newspapers to this date,
and have the honor to be, with the greatest esteem and respect, Sir, your most obedient, humble
servant,

Th: Jefferson.

P. S. The last crop of corn in France has been so short, that they apprehend want. Mr. Necker
desires me to make known this scarcity to our merchants, in hopes they would send supplies.
I promised him I would. If it could be done without naming him, it would be agreeable to him,
and probably advantageous to the adventurers. T. J.

[The annexed are the observations on the subject of admitting our whale-oil in the markets
of France, referred to in the preceding letter.]

Whale-oil enters, as a raw material, into several branches of manufacture, as of wool, leather,
soap: it is used also in painting, architecture, and navigation. But its great consumption
is in lighting houses and cities. For this last purpose, however, it has a powerful competitor
in the vegetable oils. These do well in warm, still weather, but they fix with cold, they extinguish
easily with the wind, their crop is precarious, depending on the seasons, and to yield the
same light, a larger wick must be used, and greater quantity of oil consumed. Estimating all
these articles of difference together, those employed in lighting cities find their account
in giving about twenty-five per cent, more for whale than for vegetable oils. But higher than
this the whale-oil, in its present form, cannot rise; because it then becomes more advantageous
to the city lighters to use others. This competition, then, limits its price, higher than which
no encouragement can raise it; and it becomes, as it were, a law of its nature. But, at this
low price, the whale-fishery is the poorest business into which a merchant or sailor can enter.
If the sailor, instead of wages, has a part of what is taken, he finds that this, one year
with another, yields him less than he could have got as wages in any other business. It is
attended, too, with great risk, singular hardships, and long absence from his family, if the
voyage is made solely at the expense of the merchant, he finds that, one year with another,
it does not reimburse him his expense. As for example; an English ship of three hundred tons
and forty-two hands brings home, communibus annis, after four months' voyage, twenty-five tons
of oil, worth four hundred and thirty-seven pounds ten shillings sterling. But the wages of
the officers and seamen will be four hundred pounds; the outfit, then, and the merchants' profit,
must be paid by the government: and it is accordingly on this idea, that the British bounty
is calculated. From the poverty of this business, then, it has happened, that the nations who
have taken it up have successively abandoned it. The Basques began it: but though the most
economical and enterprising of the inhabitants of France, they could not continue it; and it
is said, they never employed more than thirty ships a year. The Dutch and Hanse towns succeeded
them. The latter gave it up long ago. The English carried it on, in competition with the Dutch,
during the last and beginning of the present century: but it was too little profitable for
them, in comparison with other branches of commerce open to them.

In the mean time, the inhabitants of the barren island of Nantucket had taken up this fishery,
invited to it by the whales presenting themselves on their own shore. To them, therefore, the
English relinquished it, continuing to them, as British subjects, the importation of their
oils into England, duty free, while foreigners were subject to a duty of eighteen pounds five
shillings sterling a ton. The Dutch were enabled to continue it long, because, 1. They are
so near the northern fishing grounds, that a vessel begins her fishing very soon after she
is out of port. 2. They navigate with more economy than the other nations of Europe. 3. Their
seamen are content with lower wages: and, 4. Their merchants, with a lower profit on their
capital. Under all these favorable circumstances, however, this branch of business, after long
languishing, is at length nearly extinct with them. It is said, they did not send above half
a dozen ships in pursuit of the whale this present year. The Nantuckois, then, were the only
people who exercised this fishery to any extent at the commencement of the late war. Their
country, from its barrenness yielding no subsistence, they were obliged to seek it in the sea
which surrounded them. Their economy was more rigorous than that of the Dutch. Their seamen,
instead of wages, had a share in what was taken: this induced them to fish with fewer hands,
so that each had a greater dividend in the profit; it made them more vigilant in seeking game,
bolder in pursuing it, and parsimonious in all their expenses. London was their only market.
When, therefore, by the late revolution, they became aliens in Great Britain, they became subject
to the alien duty of eighteen pounds five shillings the ton of oil, which being more than equal
to the price of the common whale-oil, they are obliged to abandon that fishery. So that this
people, who, before the war, had employed upwards of three hundred vessels a year in the whale-fishery
(while Great Britain had herself never employed one hundred), have now almost ceased to exercise
it. But they still had the seamen, the most important material for this fishery; and they still
retained the spirit for fishing: so that, at the re-establishment of peace, they were capable,
in a very short time, of reviving their fishery in all its splendor. The British government
saw that the moment was critical. They knew that their own share in that fishery was as nothing:
that the great mass of fishermen was left with a nation now separated from them: that these
fishermen, however, had lost their ancient market; had no other resource within their country
to which they could turn and they hoped, therefore, they might, in the present moment of distress,
be decoyed over to their establishments, and be added to the mass of their seamen. To effect
this, they offered extravagant advantages to all persons who should exercise the whale-fishery
from British establishments. But not counting with much confidence on a long connection with
their remaining possessions on the continent of America, foreseeing that the Nantuckois would
settle in them, preferably, if put on an equal footing with those of Great Britain, and that
thus they might have to purchase them a second time, they confined their high offers to settlers
in Great Britain. The Nantuckois, left without resource by the loss of their market, began
to think of removing to the British dominions; some to Nova Scotia, preferring smaller advantages
in the neighborhood of their ancient country and friends; others to Great Britain, postponing
country and friends to high premiums. A vessel was already arrived from Halifax to Nantucket,
to take off some of those who proposed to remove; two families had gone on board, and others
were going, when a letter was received there, which had been written by Monsieur le Marquis
de la Fayette, to a gentleman in Boston, and transmitted by him to Nantucket. The purport of
the letter was to dissuade their accepting the British proposals, and to assure them that their
friends in France would endeavor to do something for them. This instantly suspended their design:
not another went on board, and the vessel returned to Halifax with only the two families.

In fact the French government had not been inattentive to the views of the British, nor insensible
to the crisis. They saw the danger of permitting five or six thousand of the best seamen existing,
to be transferred by a single stroke to the marine strength of their enemy, and to carry over
with them an art which they possessed almost exclusively. The counterplan which they set on
foot was to tempt the Nantuckois, by high offers, to come and settle in France. This was in
the year 1785. The British, however, had in their favor, a sameness of language, religion,
laws, habits, and kindred. Nine families only, of thirty-three persons in the whole, came to
Dunkirk; so that this project was not likely to prevent their emigration to the English establishments,
if nothing else had happened.

France had effectually aided in detaching the United States of America from the force of Great
Britain: but as yet they seemed to have indulged only a silent wish to detach them from her
commerce. They had done nothing to induce that event. In the same year, 1785, while M. de Calonne
was in treaty with the Nantuckois, an estimate of the commerce of the United States was submitted
to the Count de Vergennes, and it was shown, that, of three millions of pounds sterling, to
which their exports amounted, one third might be brought to France, and exchanged against her
productions and manufactures, advantageously for both nations; provided the obstacles of prohibition,
monopoly, and duty, were either done away, or moderated as far as circumstances would admit.
A committee, which had been appointed to investigate a particular one of these objects, was
thereupon instructed to extend its researches to the whole, and see what advantages and facilities
the government could offer, for the encouragement of a general commerce with the United States.
The committee was composed of persons well skilled in commerce; and after laboring assiduously
for several months, they made their report: the result of which was given in the letter of
his Majesty's Comptroller General, of the 22nd of October, 1786, wherein he stated the principles
which should be established, for the future regulation of the commerce between France and the
United States. It was become tolerably evident, at the date of this letter, that the terms
offered to the Nantuckois would not produce their emigration to Dunkirk; and that it would
be safest, in every event, to offer some other alternative, which might prevent their acceptance
of the British offers. The obvious one was, to open the ports of France to their oils, so that
they might still exercise their fishery, remaining in their native country, and find a new
market for its produce, instead of that which they had lost. The article of whale-oil was,
accordingly, distinguished in the letter of M. de Calonne, by an immediate abatement of duty,
and promise of further abatement, after the year 1790. This letter was instantly sent to America,
and bid fair to produce there the effect intended, by determining the fishermen to carry on
their trade from their own homes, with the advantage only of a free market in France, rather
than remove to Great Britain, where a free market and great bounty were offered them. An Arrêt
was still to be prepared, to give legal sanction to the letter of M. de Calonne. Monsieur Lambert,
with a patience and assiduity almost unexampled, went through all the investigations necessary
to assure himself, that the conclusion of the committee had been just. Frequent conferences
on this subject were held in his presence; the deputies of the chambers of commerce were heard,
and the result was, the Arrêt of December the 29th, 1787, confirming the abatements of duty,
present and future, which the letter of October, 1786, had promised, and reserving to his Majesty,
to grant still further favors to that production, if, on further information, he should find
it for the interest of the two nations.

The English had now begun to deluge the markets of France with their whale-oils; and they were
enabled by the great premiums given by their government, to undersell the French fisherman,
aided by feebler premiums, and the American, aided by his poverty alone. Nor is it certain,
that these speculations were not made at the risk of the British government, to suppress the
French and American fishermen in their only market. Some remedy seemed necessary. Perhaps it
would not have been a bad one, to subject, by a general law, the merchandise of every nation
and of every nature, to pay additional duties in the ports of France, exactly equal to the
premiums and drawbacks given on the same merchandise by their own government. This might not
only counteract the effect of premiums in the instance of whale-oils, but attack the whole
British system of bounties and drawbacks, by the aid of which they make London the centre of
commerce for the whole earth. A less general remedy, but an effectual one, was, to prohibit
the oils of all European nations: the treaty with England requiring only, that she should be
treated as well as the most favored European nation. But the remedy adopted was, to prohibit
all oils, without exception.

To know how this remedy will operate, we must consider the quantity of whale-oil which France
consumes annually, the quantity she obtains from her own fishery; and, if she obtains less
than she consumes, we are to consider what will follow the prohibition.

The annual consumption of France, as stated by a person who has good opportunities of knowing
it, is as follows.

                                     lbs. pesant.    quinteaux.    tons.

Paris, according to the registers of 1786,.................................2,800,000      
28,000      1750

Twenty-seven other cities, lighted by M. Sangrain,........................ 800,000        
8,000       500

Rouen,..................................500,000         5,000       312
Bordeaux,...............................600,000         6,000       375
Lyons,..................................300,000         3,000       187
Other cities, leather and light,......3,000,000        30,000      1875
                                       ---------        ------     ----
                                      8,000,000        80,000     5,000

Other calculations, or say rather, conjectures, reduce the consumption to about half this.
It is treating these conjectures with great respect, to place them on an equal footing with
the estimate of the person before alluded to, and to suppose the truth half way between them.
But we will do it, and call the present consumption of France only sixty thousand quintals,
or three thousand seven hundred and fifty tons a year. This consumption is increasing fast,
as the practice of lighting cities is becoming more general, and the superior advantages of
lighting them with whale-oil are but now beginning to be known.

What do the fisheries of France furnish? She has employed, this year, fifteen vessels in the
southern, and two in the northern fishery, carrying forty-five hundred tons in the whole, or
two hundred and sixty-five each, on an average. The English ships, led by Nantuckois as well
as the French, have never averaged in the southern fishery, more than one fifth of their burthen,
in the best year. The fifteen ships of France, according to this ground of calculation, and
supposing the present to have been one of the best years, should have brought, one with another,
one fifth of two hundred and sixty-five tons, or fifty-three tons each. But we are told, they
have brought near the double of that, to wit, one hundred tons each, and fifteen hundred tons
in the whole. Supposing the two northern vessels to have brought home the cargo which is common
from the northern fishery, to wit, twenty-five tons each, the whole produce this year will
then be fifteen hundred and fifty tons. This is five and a half months'provision, or two fifths
of the annual consumption. To furnish for the whole year, would require forty ships of the
same size, in years as fortunate as the present, and eighty-five, communibus annis; forty-four
tons, or one sixth of the burthen, being as high an average as should be counted on, one year
with another: and the number must be increased, with the increasing consumption. France, then,
is evidently not yet in a condition to supply her own wants. It is said, indeed, she has a
large stock on hand, unsold, occasioned by the English competition. Thirty-three thousand quintals,
including this year's produce, are spoken of: this is between six and seven months'provision;
and supposing by the time this is exhausted that the next year's supply comes in, that will
enable her to go on five or six months longer; say a twelvemonth in the whole. But, at the
end of the twelvemonth, what is to be done? The manufacturers depending on this article, cannot
maintain their competition against those of other countries, if deprived of their equal means.
When the alternative, then, shall be presented, of letting them drop, or opening the ports
to foreign whale-oil, it is presumable the latter will be adopted, as the lesser evil. But
it will be too late for America. Her fishery, annihilated during the late war, only began to
raise its head, on the prospect of a market held out by this country. Crushed by the Arrêt
of September the 28th, in its first feeble effort to revive, it will rise no more. Expeditions,
which require the expense of the outfit of vessels, and from nine to twelve months' navigation,
as the southern fishery does, most frequented by the Americans, cannot be undertaken in sole
reliance on a market, which is opened and shut from one day to another, with little or no warning.
The English alone, then, will remain to furnish these supplies, and they must be received,
even from them. We must accept bread from our enemies, if our friends cannot furnish it. This
comes exactly to the point, to which that government has been looking. She fears no rival in
the whale-fishery, but America: or rather, it is the whale-fishery of America, of which she
is endeavoring to possess herself. It is for this object, she is making the present extraordinary
efforts, by bounties and other encouragements: and her success, so far, is very flattering.
Before the war, she had not one hundred vessels in the whale-trade, while America employed
three hundred and nine. In 1786, Great Britain employed one hundred and fifty-one vessels;
in 1787, two hundred and eighty-six; in 1788, three hundred and fourteen, nearly the ancient
American number: while the latter has fallen to about eighty. They have just changed places
then; England having gained, exactly what America has lost. France, by her ports and markets,
holds the balance between the two contending parties, and gives the victory, by opening and
shutting them, to which she pleases. We have still precious remains of seamen, educated in
this fishery, and capable by their poverty, their boldness, and address, of recovering it from
the English, in spite of their bounties. But this Arret endangers the transferring to Great
Britain every man of them, who is not invincibly attached to his native soil. There is no other
nation in present condition to maintain a competition with Great Britain in the whale-fishery.
The expense, at which it is supported on her part, seems enormous. Two hundred and fifty-five
vessels, of seventy-five thousand four hundred and thirty-six tons, employed by her, this year,
in the northern fishery, at forty-two men each; and fifty-nine in the southern, at eighteen
men each, make eleven thousand seven hundred and seventy-two men. These are known to have cost
the government fifteen pounds each, or one hundred and seventy-six thousand five hundred and
eighty pounds, in the whole, and that, to employ the principal part of them from three to four
months only. The northern ships have brought home twenty, and the southern sixty tons of oil,
on an average; making eighty-six hundred and forty tons. Every ton of oil, then, has cost the
government twenty pounds in bounty. Still, if they can beat, us out of the field, and have
it to themselves, they will think their money well employed. If France undertakes, solely,
the competition against them, she must do it at equal expense. The trade is too poor to support
itself. The eighty-five ships, necessary to supply even her present consumption, bountied,
as the English are, will require a sacrifice of twelve hundred and eighty-five thousand two
hundred livres a year, to maintain three thousand five hundred and seventy seamen, and that,
a part of the year only; and if she will put it to twelve thousand men, in competition with
England, she must sacrifice, as they do, four or five millions a year. The same number of men
might, with the same bounty, be kept in as constant employ, carrying stone from Bayonne to
Cherburg, or coal from Newcastle to Havre, in which navigations they would be always at hand,
and become as good seamen. The English consider among their best sailors, those employed to
carry coal from Newcastle to London. France cannot expect to raise her fishery, even to the
supply of her own consumption, in one year, or in several years. Is it not better, then, by
keeping her ports open to the United States, to enable them to aid in maintaining the field
against the common adversary, till she shall be in condition to take it herself, and to supply
her own wants? Otherwise her supplies must aliment that very force, which is keeping her under.
On our part, we can never be dangerous competitors to France. The extent to which we can exercise
this fishery, is limited to that of the barren island of Nantucket, and a few similar barren
spots; its duration, to the pleasure of this government, as we have no other market. A material
observation must be added here: sudden vicissitudes of opening and shutting ports, do little
injury to merchants settled on the opposite coast, watching for the opening, like the return
of a tide, and ready to enter with it. But they ruin the adventurer, whose distance requires
six months' notice. Those who are now arriving from America, in consequence of the Arret of
December the 29th, will consider it as the false light which has led them to their ruin. They
will be apt to say, that they come to the ports of France by invitation of that Arrêt, that
the subsequent one of September the 28th, which drives them from those ports, founds itself
on a single principle, viz. 'that the prohibition of foreign oils is the most useful encouragement
which can be given to that branch of industry.' They will say, that, if this be a true principle,
it was as true on the 29th of December 1787, as on the 20th of September, 1788: it was then
weighed against other motives, judged weaker and overruled, and it is hard it should be now
revived, to ruin them.

The refinery for whale-oil, lately established at Rouen, seems to be an object worthy of national
attention. In order to judge of its importance, the different qualities of whale-oil must be
noted. Three qualities are known in the American and English markets. 1st. That of the spermaceti
whale. 2nd. Of the Greenland whale. 3rd. Of the Brazil whale. 1. The spermaceti whale found
by the Nantuckois, in the neighborhood of the Western Islands, to which they had gone in pursuit
of other whales, retired thence to the coast of Guinea, afterwards to that of Brazil, and begins
now to be best found in the latitude of the Cape of Good Hope, and even of Cape Horn. He is
an active, fierce animal, and requires vast address and boldness in the fisherman. The inhabitants
of Brazil make little expeditions from their coast, and take some of these fish. But the Americans
are the only distant people, who have been in the habit of seeking and attacking him, in numbers.
The British, however, led by the Nantuckois, whom they have decoyed into their service, have
begun this fishery. In 1785, they had eighteen ships in it; in 1787, thirty-eight; in 1788,
fifty-four, or, as some say, sixty-four. I have calculated on the middle number, fifty-nine.
Still they take but a very small proportion of their own demand; we furnish the rest. Theirs
is the only market to which we carry that oil, because it is the only one where its properties
are known. It is luminous, resists coagulation by cold, to the forty-first degree of Fahrenheit's
thermometer, and fourth of Reaumur's, and yields no smell at all: it is used, therefore, within
doors, to lighten shops, and even in the richest houses, for antichambers, stairs, galleries,
&c. It sells at the London market for treble the price of common whale-oil. This enables the
adventurer to pay the duty of eighteen pounds five shillings sterling the ton, and still to
have a living profit. Besides the mass of oil produced from the whole body of the whale, his
head yields three or four barrels of what is called head-matter, from which is made the solid
spermaceti, used for medicine and candles. This sells by the pound at double the price of the
oil. The disadvantage of this fishery is, that the sailors are from nine to twelve months absent
on the voyage; of course, they are not at hand on any sudden emergency, and are even liable
to be taken, before they know that war is begun. It must be added, on the subject of this whale,
that he is rare and shy, soon abandoning the grounds where he is hunted. This fishery, less
losing than the other, and often profitable, will occasion it to be so thronged, soon, as to
bring it on a level with the other. It will then require the same expensive support, or to
be abandoned.

2. The Greenland whale-oil is next in quality. It resists coagulation by cold, to thirty-six
degrees of Fahrenheit, and two of Reaumur, but it has a smell insupportable within doors, and
is not luminous. It sells, therefore, in London, at about sixteen pounds the ton. This whale
is clumsy and timid; he dives when struck, and comes up to breathe by the first cake of ice,
where the fishermen need little address or courage to find and take him. This is the fishery
mostly frequented by European nations; it is this fish which yields the fin in quantity, and
the voyages last about three or four months.

The third quality is that of the small Brazil whale. He was originally found on the coast of
Nantucket, and first led that people to this pursuit: he retired, first to the Banks of Newfoundland,
then to the Western Islands, and is now found within soundings on the coast of Brazil, during
the months of December, January, February, and March. His oil chills at fifty-two degrees of
Fahrenheit, and eight of Reaumur, is black and offensive; worth, therefore, but thirteen pounds
the ton, in London. In warm summer nights, however, it burns better than the Greenland oil.

To the qualities of the oils thus described, it is to be added, that an individual has discovered
methods, 1. of converting a great part of the oils of the spermaceti-whale, into the solid
substance called spermaceti, heretofore produced from his head alone; 2. of refining the Greenland
whale-oil, so as to take from it all smell, and render it limpid and luminous as that of the
spermaceti-whale; 3. of curdling the oil of the Brazil whale into tallow, resembling that of
beef, and answering all its purposes. This person is engaged by the company, which has established
the refinery at Rouen: their works will cost them half a million of livres; will be able to
refine all the oil which can be used in the kingdom, and even to supply foreign markets. The
effects of the refinery, then, would be, 1. to supplant the solid spermaceti of all other nations,
by theirs, of equal quality and lower price; 2. to substitute, instead of spermaceti-oil, their
black whale-oil refined, of equal quality and lower price; 3. to render the worthless oil of
the Brazil, equal in value to tallow; and 4. by accommodating these oils to uses, to which
they could never otherwise have been applied, they will extend the demand beyond its present
narrow limits, to any supply which can be furnished, and thus give the most effectual encouragement
and extension to the whale-fishery. But these works were calculated on the Arrêt of December
the 29th, which admitted here, freely and fully, the produce of the American fishery. If confined
to that of the French fishery alone, the enterprise may fail, for want of matter to work on.

After this review of the whale-fishery as a political institution, a few considerations shall
be added on its produce, as a basis of commercial exchange between France and the United States.
The discussions it has undergone, on former occasions, in this point of view, leaves little
new to be now urged.

The United States, not possessing mines of the precious metals, can purchase necessaries from
other nations, so far only as their produce is received in exchange. Without enumerating our
smaller articles, we have three of principal importance, proper for the French market; to wit,
tobacco, whale-oil, and rice. The first and most important, is tobacco. This might furnish
an exchange for eight millions of the productions of this country; but it is under a monopoly,
and that not of a mercantile, but of a financiering company, whose interest is, to pay in money
and not in merchandise, and who are so much governed by the spirit of simplifying their purchases
and proceedings, that they find means to elude every endeavor on the part of government, to
make them diffuse their purchases among the merchants in general. Little profit is derived
from this, then, as an article of exchange for the produce and manufactures of France. Whale-oil
might be next in importance; but that is now prohibited. American rice is not yet of great,
but it is of growing consumption in France, and being the only article of the three which is
free, it may become a principal basis of exchange. Time and trial may add a fourth, that is,
timber. But some essays, rendered unsuccessful by unfortunate circumstances, place that, at
present, under a discredit, which it will be found hereafter not to have merited. The English
know its value, and were supplied with it, before the war. A spirit of hostility, since that
event, led them to seek Russian rather than American supplies; a new spirit of hostility has
driven them back from Russia, and they are now making contracts for American timber. But of
the three articles before mentioned, proved by experience to be suitable for the French market,
one is prohibited, one under monopoly, and one alone free, and that the smallest and of very
limited consumption. The way to encourage purchasers, is, to multiply their means of payment.
Whale-oil might be an important one. In one scale, are the interests of the millions who are
lighted, shod, or clothed with the help of it, and the thousands of laborers and manufacturers,
who would be employed in producing the articles which might be given in exchange for it, if
received from America: in the other scale, are the interests of the adventurers in the whale-fishery
each of whom, indeed, politically considered, may be of more importance to the State, than
a simple laborer or manufacturer; but to make the estimate with the accuracy it merits, we
should multiply the numbers in each scale into their individual importance, and see which preponderates.

Both governments have seen with concern, that their commercial intercourse does not grow as
rapidly as they would wish. The system of the United States is, to use neither prohibitions
nor premiums. Commerce, there, regulates itself freely, and asks nothing better. Where a government
finds itself under the necessity of undertaking that regulation, it would seem, that it should
conduct it as an intelligent merchant would; that is to say, invite customers to purchase,
by facilitating their means of payment, and by adapting goods to their taste. If this idea
be just, government here has two operations to attend to, with respect to the commerce of the
United States; 1. to do away, or to moderate, as much as possible, the prohibitions and monopolies
of their materials for payment; 2. to encourage the institution of the principal manufactures,
which the necessities, or the habits of their new customers call for. Under this latter head,
a hint shall be suggested, which must find its apology in the motive from which it flows; that
is, a desire of promoting mutual interests and close friendship. Six hundred thousand of the
laboring poor of America, comprehending slaves under that denomination, are clothed in three
of the simplest manufactures possible; to wit, oznaburgs, plains, and duffel blankets. The
first is a linen; the two last, woollens. It happens, too, that they are used exactly by those
who cultivate the tobacco and rice, and in a good degree by those employed in the whale-fishery.
To these manufactures they are so habituated, that no substitute will be received. If the vessels
which bring tobacco, rice, and whale-oil, do not find them in the ports of delivery, they must
be sought where they can be found; that is, in England, at present. If they were made in France,
they would be gladly taken in exchange there. The quantities annually used by this description
of people, and their value, are as follows:

     Oznaburgs 2,700,000 aunes, at sixteen sous the aune, worth
          2,160,000

     Plains    1,350,000 aunes, at two livres the aune,
          2,700,000

     Duffel Blankets 300,000 aunes, at seven and 4/5ths livres each
          2,160,000
         ----------
          7,020,000

It would be difficult to say, how much should be added, for the consumption of inhabitants
of other descriptions; a great deal surely. But the present view shall be confined to the one
description named. Seven millions of livres, are nine millions of days' work, of those who
raise, spin, and weave the wool and flax; and, at three hundred working days to the year, would
maintain thirty thousand people. To introduce these simple manufactures, suppose government
to give five per cent, on the value of what should be exported of them, for ten years to come:
if none should be exported, nothing would be to be paid: but on the other hand, if the manufactures,
with this encouragement, should rise to the full demand, it will be a sacrifice of three hundred
and fifty-one thousand livres a year, for ten years only, to produce a perpetual subsistence
for more than thirty thousand people (for the demand will grow with our population); while
she must expend perpetually one million two hundred and eighty-five thousand livres a year,
to maintain the three thousand five hundred and seventy seamen, who would supply her with whale-oil.
That is to say, for each seaman, as much as for thirty laborers and manufacturers.

But to return to our subject, and to conclude.

Whether, then, we consider the Arrêt of September the 28th, in a political or a commercial
light, it would seem, that the United States should be excepted from its operation. Still more
so, when they invoke against it the amity subsisting between the two nations, the desire of
binding them together by every possible interest and connection, the several acts in favor
of this exception, the dignity of legislation, which admits not of changes backwards and forwards,
the interests of commerce, which requires steady regulations, the assurances of the friendly
motives which have led the King to pass these acts, and the hope, that no cause will arise,
to change either his motives or his measures towards us.

LETTER CLXXI.--TO JOHN JAY, November 29, 1788

TO JOHN JAY.

Paris, November 29, 1788.

Sir,

In the hurry of making up my letter of the 19th instant, I omitted the enclosed printed paper,
on the subject of whale-oil. That omission is now supplied by another conveyance, by the way
of London. The explanatory Arrêt is not yet come out. I still take for granted, it will pass,
though there be an opposition to it in the Council. In the mean time, orders are given to receive
our oils which may arrive. The apprehension of a want of corn has induced them to turn their
eyes to foreign supplies; and to show their preference of receiving them from us, they have
passed the enclosed Arrêt, giving a premium on wheat and flour from the United States, for
a limited time. This, you will doubtless think proper to have translated and published. The
Notables are still in session: the votes of the separate bureaux have not yet been reduced
to a joint act, in an assembly of the whole. I see no reason to suppose they will change the
separate votes relative to the representation of the Tiers Etat in the States General. In the
mean time, the stream of public indignation, heretofore directed against the court, sets strongly
against the Notables. It is not yet decided when the States will meet: but certainly they cannot,
till February or March. The Turks have retired across the Danube. This movement indicates their
going into winter-quarters, and the severity of the weather must hasten it. The thermometer
was yesterday at eight degrees of Fahrenheit, that is, twenty-four degrees below freezing;
a degree of cold equal to that of the year 1740, which they count here among their coldest
winters. This having continued many days, and being still likely to continue, and the wind
from northeast, render it probable, that all enterprise must be suspended between the three
great belligerent powers. Poland is likely to be thrown into great convulsions. The Empress
of Russia has peremptorily demanded such aids from Poland, as might engage it in the war. The
King of Prussia, on the other hand, threatens to march an army on their borders. The vote of
the Polish confederacy for one hundred thousand men, was a coalition of the two parties, in
that single act only. The party opposed to the King, have obtained a majority, and have voted
that this army shall be independent of him. They are supported by Prussia, while the King depends
on Russia. Authentic information from England leaves not a doubt, that the King is lunatic;
and that, instead of the effect, is the cause of the illness, under which he has been so near
dying. I mention this, because the English newspapers, speaking by guess on that as they do
on all other subjects, might mislead you as to his true situation; or rather, might mislead
others, who know less than you do, that a thing is not rendered the more probable, by being
mentioned in those papers.

Paris, December 4, 1788.

Sir,

Your favor of August the 31st came to hand yesterday; and a confidential conveyance offering,
by the way of London, I avail myself of it, to acknowledge the receipt.

I have seen, with infinite pleasure, our new constitution accepted by eleven States, not rejected
by the twelfth; and that the thirteenth happens to be a state of the least importance. It is
true, that the minorities in most of the accepting States have been very respectable; so much
so, as to render it prudent, were it not otherwise reasonable, to make some sacrifice to them.
I am in hopes, that the annexation of a bill of rights to the constitution will alone draw
over so great a proportion of the minorities, as to leave little danger in the opposition of
the residue; and that this annexation may be made by Congress and the Assemblies, without calling
a convention, which might endanger the most valuable parts of the system. Calculation has convinced
me, that circumstances may arise, and probably will arise, wherein all the resources of taxation
will be necessary for the safety of the State. For though I am decidedly of opinion, we should
take no part in European quarrels, but cultivate peace and commerce with all, yet who can avoid
seeing the source of war in the tyranny of those nations, who deprive us of the natural right
of trading with our neighbors? The produce of the United States will soon exceed the European
demand: what is to be done with the surplus, when there shall be one? It will be employed,
without question, to open, by force, a market for itself, with those placed on the same continent
with us, and who wish nothing better. Other causes, too, are obvious, which may involve us
in war; and war requires every resource of taxation and credit. The power of making war often
prevents it, and in our case, would give efficacy to our desire of peace. If the new government
wears the front which I hope it will, I see no impossibility in the availing ourselves of the
wars of others, to open the other parts of America to our commerce, as the price of our neutrality.

The campaign between the Turks and two Empires has been clearly in favor of the former. The
Emperor is secretly trying to bring about a peace. The alliance between England, Prussia, and
Holland, (and some suspect Sweden also) renders their mediation decisive, wherever it is proposed.
They seemed to interpose it so magisterially between Denmark and Sweden, that the former submitted
to its dictates, and there was all reason to believe, that the war in the northwestern parts
of Europe would be, quieted. All of a sudden, a new flame bursts out in Poland. The King and
his party are devoted to Russia. The opposition rely on the protection of Prussia. They have
lately become the majority in the confederated diet, and have passed a vote for subjecting
their army to a commission independent of the King, and propose a perpetual diet, in which
case he will be a perpetual cipher. Russia declares against such a change in their constitution,
and Prussia has put an army into readiness, for marching, at a moment's warning, on the frontier
of Poland. These events are too recent, to see, as yet, what turn they will take, or what effect
they will have on the peace of Europe. So is that also, of the lunacy of the King of England,
which is a decided fact, notwithstanding all the stuff the English papers publish, about his
fevers, his deliriums, &c. The truth is, that the lunacy declared itself almost at once, and
with as few concomitant complaints, as usually attend the first developement of that disorder.
I suppose a regency will be established, and if it consists of a plurality of members, it will,
probably, be peaceable. In this event, it will much favor the present wishes of this country,
which are so decidedly for peace, that they refused to enter into the mediation between Sweden
and Russia, lest it should commit them. As soon as the convocation of the States General was
announced, a tranquillity took place through the whole kingdom: happily, no open rupture had
taken place, in any part of it. The parliament were re-instated in their functions, at the
same time. This was all they desired; and they had called for the States General, only through
fear that the crown could not otherwise be forced to re-instate them. Their end obtained, they
began to foresee danger to themselves, in the States General. They began to lay the foundation
for caviling at the legality of that body, if its measures should be hostile to them. The court,
to clear itself of the dispute, convened the Notables, who had acted with general approbation
on the former occasion, and referred to them the forms of calling and organizing the States
General. These Notables consist principally of Nobility and Clergy; the few of the Tiers Etat
among them, being either parliament men, or other privileged persons. The court wished, that,
in the future States General, the members of the Tiers Etat should equal those of both the
other orders, and that they should form but one House, all together, and vote by persons, not
by orders. But the Notables, in the true spirit of Priests and Nobles, combining together against
the people, have voted, by five bureaux out of six, that the people, or Tiers Etat, shall have
no greater number of deputies, than each of the other orders separately, and that they shall
vote by orders: so that two orders concurring in a vote, the third will be overruled; for it
is not here as in England, where each of the three branches has a negative on the other two.
If this project of theirs succeeds, a combination between the two Houses of Clergy and Nobles
will render the representation of the Tiers Etat merely nugatory. The bureaux are to assemble
together, to consolidate their separate votes: but I see no reasonable hope of their changing
this. Perhaps the King, knowing that he may count on the support of the nation, and attach
it more closely to him, may take on himself to disregard the opinion of the Notables in this
instance, and may call an equal representation of the people, in which precedents will support
him. In every event, I think the present disquiet will end well. The nation has been awaked
by our Revolution; they feel their strength, they are enlightened, their lights are spreading,
and they will not retrograde. The first States General may establish three important points,
without opposition from the court; 1. their own periodical convocation; 2. their exclusive
right of taxation (which has been confessed by the King); 3. the right of registering laws,
and of previously proposing amendments to them, as the parliaments have, by usurpation, been
in the habit of doing. The court will consent to this, from its hatred to the parliaments,
and from the desire of having to do with one, rather than many legislatures. If the States
are prudent, they will not aim at more than this at first, lest they should shock the dispositions
of the court, and even alarm the public mind, which must be left to open itself, by degrees,
to successive improvements. These will follow, from the nature of things: how far they can
proceed, in the end, towards a thorough reformation of abuse, cannot be foreseen. In my opinion,
a kind of influence, which none of their plans of reform take into account, will elude them
all; I mean the influence of women in the government. The manners of the nation allow them
to visit, alone, all persons in office, to solicit the affairs of the husband, family, or friends,
and their solicitations bid defiance to laws and regulations. This obstacle may seem less to
those, who, like our countrymen, are in the precious habit of considering right, as a barrier
against all solicitation. Nor can such an one, without the evidence of his own eyes, believe
in the desperate state to which things are reduced in this country, from the omnipotence of
an influence, which, fortunately for the happiness of the sex itself, does not endeavor to
extend itself, in our country, beyond the domestic line.

Your communications to the Count de Moustier, whatever they may have been, cannot have done
injury to my endeavors here, to open the West Indies to us. On this head, the ministers are
invincibly mute, though I have often tried to draw them into the subject. I have therefore
found it necessary to let it lie, till war, or other circumstances, may force it on. Whenever
they are in war with England, they must open the islands to us, and perhaps, during that war,
they may see some price which might make them agree to keep them always open. In the mean time,
I have laid my shoulder to the opening the markets of this country to our produce, and rendering
its transportation a nursery for our seamen. A maritime force is the only one, by which we
can act on Europe. Our navigation law (if it be wise to have any) should be the reverse of
that of England. Instead of confining importations to home-bottoms, or those of the producing
nation, I think we should confine exportations to home-bottoms, or to those of nations having
treaties with us. Our exportations are heavy, and would nourish a great force of our own, or
be a tempting price to the nation to whom we should offer a participation of it, in exchange
for free access to all their possessions. This is an object to which our government alone is
adequate, in the gross; but I have ventured to pursue it here, so far as the consumption of
our productions by this country extends. Thus, in our arrangements relative to tobacco, none
can be received here, but in French or American bottoms. This is employment for near two thousand
seamen, and puts nearly that number of British out of employ. By the Arrêt of December, 1787,
it was provided, that our whale-oils should not be received here, but in French or American
bottoms; and by later regulations, all oils, but those of France and America, are excluded.
This will put one hundred English whale vessels immediately out of employ, and one hundred
and fifty ere long; and call so many of French and American into service. We have had six thousand
seamen formerly in this business, the whole of whom we have been likely to lose. The consumption
of rice is growing fast in this country, and that of Carolina gaining ground on every other
kind. I am of opinion, the whole of the Carolina rice can be consumed here. Its transportation
employs two thousand five hundred sailors, almost all of them English at present; the rice
being deposited at Cowes, and brought from thence here. It would be dangerous to confine this
transportation to French and American bottoms, the ensuing year, because they will be much
engrossed by the transportation of wheat and flour hither, and the crop of rice might lie on
hand for want of vessels; but I see no objections to the extension of our principle to this
article also, beginning with the year 1790. However, before there is a necessity of deciding
on this, I hope to be able to consult our new government in person, as I have asked of Congress
a leave of absence for six months, that is to say, from April to November next. It is necessary
for me to pay a short visit to my native country, first, to reconduct my family thither, and
place them in the hands of their friends, and secondly, to place my private affairs under certain
arrangements. When I left my own house, I expected to be absent but five months, and I have
been led by events to an absence of five years. I shall hope, therefore, for the pleasure of
personal conferences with your Excellency, on the subject of this letter, and others interesting
to our country; of getting my own ideas set to rights by a communication of yours, and of taking
again the tone of sentiment of my own country, which we lose in some degree, after a certain
absence. You know, doubtless, of the death of the Marquis de Chastellux. The Marquis de la
Fayette is out of favor with the court, but high in favor with the nation. I once feared for
his personal liberty, but I hope he is on safe ground at present.

On the subject of the whale-fishery, I enclose you some observations I drew up for the ministry
here, in order to obtain a correction of their Arrêt of September last, whereby they had involved
our oils with the English, in a general exclusion from their ports. They will accordingly correct
this, so that our oils will participate with theirs, in the monopoly of their markets. There
are several things incidentally introduced, which do not seem pertinent to the general question:
they were rendered necessary by particular circumstances, the explanation of which would add
to a letter already too long. I will trespass no further, than to assure you of the sentiments
of sincere attachment and respect, with which I have the honor to be your Excellency's most
obedient, humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

P. S. The observations enclosed, though printed, have been put into confidential hands only. T. J.

LETTER CLXXIII.--TO JOHN ADAMS, December 5, 1788

TO JOHN ADAMS.

Paris, December 5, 1788.

Dear Sir,

I had the pleasure of writing to you on the 2nd of August, and of adding a Postscript of August
the 6th.

You recollect well the Arrêt of December the 29th, 1787, in favor of our commerce, and which,
among other things, gave free admission to our whale-oil, under a duty of about two louis a
ton. In consequence of the English treaty, their oils flowed in, and over-stocked the market.
The light duty they were liable to under the treaty, still lessened by false estimates and
aided by the high premiums of the British government, enabled them to undersell the French
and American oils. This produced an outcry of the Dunkirk fishery. It was proposed to exclude
all European oils, which would not infringe the British treaty. I could not but encourage this
idea, because it would give to the French and American fisheries a monopoly of the French market.
The Arrêt was so drawn up; but, in the very moment of passing it, they struck out the word
European, so that our oils became involved. This, I believe, was the effect of a single person
in the ministry. As soon as it was known to me, I wrote to Monsieur de Montmorin, and had conferences
with him and the other ministers. I found it necessary to give them information on the subject
of the whale-fishery, of which they knew little but from the partial information of their Dunkirk
adventurers. I therefore wrote the observations (of which I enclose you a printed copy), had
them printed to entice them to read them, and particularly developed the expense at which they
are carrying on that fishery, and at which they must continue it, if they do continue it. This
part was more particularly intended for Mr. Necker, who was quite a stranger to the subject,
who has principles of economy, and will enter into calculations. Other subjects are incidentally
introduced; though little connected with the main question, they had been called for by other
circumstances. An immediate order was given for the present admission of our oils, till they
could form an Arrêt; and, at a conference, the draught of an Arrêt was communicated to me,
which re-established that of December the 29th. They expressed fears, that, under cover of
our name, the Nova Scotia oils would be introduced; and a blank was left in the draught for
the means of preventing that. They have since proposed, that the certificate of their consul
shall accompany the oils, to authorize their admission, and this is what they will probably
adopt. It was observed, that if our States would prohibit all foreign oils from being imported
into them, it would be a great safeguard, and an encouragement to them to continue the admission.
Still there remains an expression in the Arrêt, that it is provisory only. However, we must
be contented with it as it is; my hope being, that the legislature will be transferred to the
National Assembly, in whose hands it will be more stable, and with whom it will be more difficult
to obtain a repeal, should the ministry hereafter desire it. If they could succeed in drawing
over as many of our Nantucket men as would supply their demands of oil, we might then fear
an exclusion; but the present Arrêt, as soon as it shall be passed, will, I hope, place us
in safety till that event, and that event may never happen. I have entered into all these details,
that you may be enabled to quiet the alarm which must have been raised by the Arrêt of September
the 28th, and assure the adventurers that they may pursue their enterprises as safely as if
that had never been passed, and more profitably, because we participate now of a monopolized,
instead of an open market. The enclosed observations, though printed, have only been given
to the ministers, and one or two other confidential persons. You will see that they contain
matter which should be kept from the English, and will therefore trust them to the perusal
only of such persons as you can confide in. We are greatly indebted to the Marquis de la Fayette
for his aid on this, as on every other occasion. He has paid the closest attention to it, and
combated for us with the zeal of a native.

The necessity of reconducting my family to America, and of placing my affairs there under permanent
arrangements, has obliged me to ask of Congress a six months' absence, to wit, from April to
November next. I hope, therefore, to have the pleasure of seeing you there, and particularly,
that it will be at New York that I shall find you. Be so good as to present my sincere esteem
to Mrs. Adams, and believe me to be, with very affectionate attachment, Dear Sir, your friend
and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CLXXIV.--TO MR. SHORT, December 8, 1788

TO MR. SHORT.

Paris, December 8, 1788.

Dear Sir,

My last to you was of the 21st of November, addressed to Milan, poste restante, according to
the desire expressed through Mrs. Paradise. I have lately received yours of the 19th of November,
and sincerely felicitate you on your recovery. I wish you may have suffered this to be sufficiently
established before you set out on your journey. The present letter will probably reach you
amidst the classical enjoyments of Rome. I feel myself kindle at the reflection, to make that
journey; but circumstances will oblige me to postpone it at least. We are here under a most
extraordinary degree of cold. The thermometer has been ten degrees of Reaumur below freezing:
this is eight degrees of Fahrenheit above zero, and was the degree of cold here in the year
1740. The long continuance of this severity, and the snow now on the ground, give physical
prognostications of a hard winter. You will be in a privileged climate, and will have had an
enviable escape from this. The Notables are not yet separated, nor is their treasonable vote
against the people yet consolidated; but it will be. The parliament have taken up the subject,
and passed a very laudable vote in opposition. They have made it the occasion of giving sketches
of what should be a bill of rights. Perhaps this opposition of authority may give the court
an option between the two. Stocks are rising slowly, but steadily. The loan of 1784 is at thirteen
loss; the caisse d'escompte, four thousand and seventy-five. The Count de Bryenne has retired,
and M. de Puysegur succeeded to his place. Madame de Chambonois (sister of M. de Langear) is
dead of the small-pox. Pio is likely to receive a good appointment in his own country, which
will take him from us. Corn is likely to become extremely scarce in France, Spain, and England.
This country has offered a premium of forty sous the quintal on flour of the United States,
and thirty sous the quintal on our wheat, to be brought here between February and June.

General Washington writes me, that industry and economy begin to take place of that idleness
and extravagance which had succeeded the close of the war. The Potomac canal is in great forwardness.
J. M. writes me word, that Mr. Jay and General Knox are talked of in the Middle States for
Vice-Presidents, but he queries whether both will not prefer their present births. It seems
agreed, that some emendations will be made to the new constitution. All are willing to add
a bill of rights; but they fear the power of internal taxation will be abridged. The friends
of the new government will oppose the method of amendment by a federal convention, which would
subject the whole instrument to change, and they will support the other method, which admits
Congress, by a vote of two thirds, to submit specific changes to the Assemblies, three fourths
of whom must concur to establish them.

The enclosed letter is from Pallegrino, one of the Italian laborers established in our neighborhood.
I fancy it contains one for his father. I have supposed it would not be unpleasant to you to
have the delivery of it, as it may give you a good opportunity of conferring with one of that
class as much as you please. I obey at the same time my own wishes to oblige the writer. Mazzei
is at this time ill, but not in danger. I am impatient to receive further letters from you,
which may assure me of the solidity of your recovery, being, with great anxiety for your health
and happiness, Dear Sir, your affectionate friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

     [The annexed is here inserted in the Author's MS. To whom
     addressed, does not appear.]

The Minister Plenipotentiary for the United States of America finds himself under the necessity
of declining to authenticate writings destined to be sent to the United States, for this main
reason, that such authentication is not legal evidence there. After a reason so sufficient,
it seems superfluous to add, that, were his authentication admissible in the courts of the
United States, he could never give it to any seal or signature, which had not been put in his
presence; that he could never certify a copy, unless both that and the original were in a hand-writing
legible to him, and had been compared together by him, word by word: that so numerous are the
writings presented, that their authentication alone would occupy the greater part of his time,
and, withdrawing him from his proper duties, would change the nature of his office to that
of a notary. He observes to those who do him the honor of addressing themselves to him on this
subject, that the laws for the authentication of foreign writings are not the same through
all the United States, some requiring an authentication under the seal of the Prevoté of a
city, and others admitting that of a Notary: but that writings authenticated in both these
manners, will, under the one or the other, be admitted in most, if not all of the United States.
It would seem advisable, then, to furnish them with this double authentication.

LETTER CLXXV.--TO DOCTOR GILMER, December 16, 1788

TO DOCTOR GILMER.

Paife, December 16, 1788.

Dear Doctor,

Your last letter of December the 23rd was unlucky, like the former one, in arriving while I
was absent on a call of public business in Holland. I was discouraged from answering the law
part of it on my return, because I foresaw such a length of time between the date of that and
receipt of the answer, as would give it the air of a prescription after the death of the patient.
I hope the whole affair is settled, and that you are established in good titles to all the
lands. Still, however, being on the subject, I cannot help adding a word, in answer to the
objection which you say is raised on the words 'the estate,' instead of 'my estate.' It has
long been confessed in the courts, that the first decision, that a devise of lands to a person
without words of inheritance, should carry an estate for life only, was an absurd decision,
founded on feudal principles, after feudal ideas had long been lost by the unlettered writers
of their own wills: and it has often been said, that were the matter to begin again, it should
be decided that such a devise should carry a fee simple, as every body is sensible testators
intend, by these expressions. The courts, therefore, circumscribe the authority of this chain
of decisions, all hanging on the first link, as much as possible; and they avail themselves
of every possible circumstance which may render any new case unlike the old one, and authorize
them to conform their judgments to common sense, and the will of the testator. Hence they decide,
that in a devise of 'my estate at M.' to such a one, without words of inheritance, the word
estate is descriptive of the duration of the interest bequeathed, as well as its locality.
From the same desire of getting back into the paths of common sense, they would not suffer
the particle 'the' instead of 'my', to make a difference. 'My estate at M.' means not only
my lands at M., but my fee simple in them. I should reverse the argument, and say, as it confessed
the word estate, conveys an estate in fee simple, we must conclude the word tract was meant
to convey the same; that this conclusion coincides with the wishes of the courts, as bringing
them back to what is right and consentaneous to the intention of the testator, as furnishing
them a circumstance to distinguish the case from the original one, and withdraw it from its
authority; whereas, the contrary conclusion tends to lead them further from the meaning of
testators, and to fix them in error.

But I perceive that my wishes to see the weight of no objection where you are interested, are
leading me to write an argument, where I had promised I would say only a word. I will, therefore,
talk the subject over with you at Monticello, or Pen-park. I have asked of Congress a leave
of five or six months' absence next year, that I may carry my daughters home, and assist in
the arrangement of my affairs. I shall pass two of the months at Monticello, that is to say,
either June and July, or July and August, according to the time I may sail, which I hope will
be in April: and then go on to New York and Boston, from whence I shall embark again for Europe,
so as to get here before the winter sets in. I look forward with great fondness to the moment,
when I can again see my own country and my own neighbors, and endeavor to anticipate as little
as possible the pain of another separation from them. I hope I shall find you all under the
peaceable establishment of the new constitution, which, as far as I can judge from public papers,
seems to have become necessary for the happiness of our country. I thank you for your kind
inquiries about my wrist. I followed advice with it, till I saw, visibly, that the joint had
never been replaced, and that it was absurd to expect that cataplasms and waters would reduce
dislocated bones. From that moment I have done nothing. I have for ever lost the use of my
hand, except that I can write: and a withered hand and swelled and crooked fingers, still remaining
twenty-seven months after the accident, make me fear I do not yet know the worst of it. But
this, too, we will talk over at Monticello, and endeavor that it be the only pain to which
our attention may be recalled. Adieu, my dear friend. Kiss and bless every body for me, Mrs.
Gilmer especially. Assure her and yourself of the sincere and constant attachment of, Dear
Doctor, your affectionate friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CLXXVI.--TO THOMAS PAINE, December 23,1788

TO THOMAS PAINE.

Paris, December 23,1788.

Dear Sir,

It is true that I received very long ago your favors of September the 9th and 15th, and that
I have been in daily intention of answering them, fully and confidentially; but you know such
a correspondence between you and me cannot pass through the post, nor even by the couriers
of ambassadors. The French packet-boats being discontinued, I am now obliged to watch opportunities
by Americans going to London, to write my letters to America. Hence it has happened, that these,
the sole opportunities by which I can write to you without fear, have been lost, by the multitude
of American letters I had to write. I now determine, without foreseeing any such conveyance,
to begin my letter to you, so that when a conveyance occurs, I shall only have to add recent
occurrences. Notwithstanding the interval of my answer which has taken place, I must beg a
continuance of your correspondence; because I have great confidence in your communications,
and since Mr. Adams's departure, I am in need of authentic information from that country.

I will begin with the subject of your bridge, in which I feel myself interested; and it is
with great pleasure that I learn, by your favor of the 16th, that the execution of the arch
of experiment exceeds your expectations. In your former letter you mention, that, instead of
arranging your tubes and bolts as ordinates to the cord of the arch, you had reverted to your
first idea, of arranging them in the direction of radii. I am sure it will gain both in beauty
and strength. It is true that the divergence of these radii recurs as a difficulty, in getting
the rails on upon the bolts; but I thought this fully removed by the answer you first gave
me, when I suggested that difficulty, to wit, that you should place the rails first, and drive
the bolts through them, and not, as I had imagined, place the bolts first, and put the rails
on them. I must doubt whether what you now suggest will be as good as your first idea; to wit,
to have every rail split into two pieces longitudinally, so that there shall be but the halves
of the holes in each, and then to clamp the two halves together. The solidity of this method
cannot be equal to that of the solid rail, and it increases the suspicious parts of the whole
machine, which, in a first experiment, ought to be rendered as few as possible. But of all
this the practical iron men are much better judges than we theorists. You hesitate between
the catenary and portion of a circle. I have lately received from Italy a treatise on the equilibrium
of arches, by the Abbe Mascheroni. It appears to be a very scientifical work. I have not yet
had time to engage in it; but I find that the conclusions of his demonstrations are, that every
part of the catenary is in perfect equilibrium. It is a great point, then, in a new experiment,
to adopt the sole arch, where the pressure will be equally borne by every point of it. If any
one point is pushed with accumulated pressure, it will introduce a danger, foreign to the essential
part of the plan. The difficulty you suggest, is, that the rails being all in catenaries, the
tubes must be of different lengths, as these approach nearer or recede farther from each other,
and therefore you recur to the portions of concentric circles, which are equidistant in all
their parts. But I would rather propose, that you make your middle rail an exact catenary,
and the interior and exterior rails parallels to that. It is true, they will not be exact catenaries,
but they will depart very little from it; much less than portions of circles will. Nothing
has been done here on the subject since you went away. There is an Abbe D'Arnal at Nismes,
who had obtained an exclusive privilege for navigating the rivers of this country by the aid
of the steam-engine. This interests Mr. Rumsey, who had hoped the same thing. D'Arnal's privilege
was published in a paper of the 10th of November. Probably, therefore, his application for
it was previous to the delivery of Mr. Rumsey's papers to the secretary of the Academy of Sciences,
which was in the latter part of the month of August. However, D'Arnal is not a formidable competitor.
He is not in circumstances to make any use himself of his privilege, and he has so illy succeeded
with a steam-mill he erected at Nismes, that he is not likely to engage others to venture in
his projects. To say another word of the catenarian arch, without caring about mathematical
demonstrations, its nature proves it to be in equilibrio in every point. It is the arch formed
by a string fixed at both ends, and swaying loose in all the intermediate points. Thus at liberty,
they must finally take that position, wherein every one will be equally pressed; for if any
one was more pressed than the neighboring point, it would give way, from the flexibility of
the matter of the string.

Paris, January 11, 1789.

Sir,

My last letters were of the 14th, 19th, and 29th of November, by the way of London. The present
will go the same way, through a private channel.

All military operations in Europe seem to have been stopped, by the excessive severity of the
weather. In this country, it is unparalleled in so early a part of the winter, and in duration,
having continued since the middle of November, during which time it has been as low as nine
degrees below nought, that is to say, forty degrees below freezing, by Fahrenheit's thermometer;
and it has increased the difficulties of the administration here. They had, before, to struggle
with the want of money, and want of bread for the people, and now, the want of fuel for them,
and want of employment. The siege of Oczakow is still continued, the soldiers sheltering themselves
in the Russian manner, in subterraneous barracks; and the Captain Pacha has retired with his
fleet. The death of the King of Spain has contributed, with the insanity of the English King,
to render problematical the form which the affairs of Europe will ultimately take. Some think
a peace possible between the Turks and two Empires, with the cession of Crimea to the former,
as less important to Russia than Poland, which she is in danger of losing. In this case, the
two Empires might attack the King of Prussia, and the scene of war be only changed. He is certainly
uneasy at the accident happened to his principal ally. There seems no doubt, but that the Prince
of Wales will be sole regent; but it is also supposed, they will not give him the whole executive
power, and particularly, that of declaring war without the consent of the parliament. Should
his personal dispositions, therefore, and that of a new ministry, be the same which the King
had, of co-operating with Prussia, yet the latter cannot count on their effect. Probably, the
parliament will not consent to war, so that I think we may consider the two great powers of
France and England as absolutely at rest for some time.

As the character of the Prince of Wales is becoming interesting, I have endeavored to learn
what it truly is. This is less difficult in his case, than in that of other persons of his
rank, because he has taken no pains to hide himself from the world. The information I most
rely on, is from a person here, with whom I am intimate, who divides his time between Paris
and London, an Englishman by birth, of truth, sagacity, and science. He is of a circle, when
in London, which has had good opportunities of knowing the Prince; but he has also, himself,
had special occasions of verifying their information, by his own personal observation. He happened,
when last in London, to be invited to a dinner of three persons. The Prince came by chance,
and made the fourth. He ate half a leg of mutton; did not taste of small dishes, because small;
drank Champagne and Burgundy as small beer during dinner, and Bordeaux after dinner, as the
rest of the company. Upon the whole, he ate as much as the other three, and drank about two
bottles of wine without seeming to feel it. My informant sat next him, and being till then
unknown to the Prince, personally, (though not by character), and lately from France, the Prince
confined his conversation almost entirely to him. Observing to the Prince that he spoke French
without the least foreign accent, the Prince told him, that when very young, his father had
put only French servants about him, and that it was to that circumstance he owed his pronunciation.
He led him from this to give an account of his education, the total of which was the learning
a little Latin. He has not a single element of Mathematics, of Natural or Moral Philosophy,
or of any other science on earth, nor has the society he has kept been such as to supply the
void of education. It has been that of the lowest, the most illiterate and profligate persons
of the kingdom, without choice of rank or mind, and with whom the subjects of conversation
are only horses, drinking-matches, bawdy houses, and in terms the most vulgar. The young nobility,
who begin by associating with him, soon leave him, disgusted with the insupportable profligacy
of his society; and Mr. Fox, who has been supposed his favorite, and not over nice in the choice
of company, would never keep his company habitually. In fact, he never associated with a man
of sense. He has not a single idea of justice, morality, religion, or of the rights of men,
or any anxiety for the opinion of the world. He carries that indifference for fame so far,
that he would probably not be hurt were he to lose his throne, provided he could be assured
of having always meat, drink, horses, and women. In the article of women, nevertheless, he
is become more correct, since his connection with Mrs. Fitzherbert, who is an honest and worthy
woman: he is even less crapulous than he was. He had a fine person, but it is becoming coarse.
He possesses good native common sense; is affable, polite, and very good humored. Saying to
my informant on another occasion, 'your friend, such a one, dined with me yesterday, and I
made him damned drunk;' he replied, 'I am sorry for it; I had heard that your royal highness
had left off drinking;' the Prince laughed, tapped him on the shoulder very good-naturedly,
without saying a word, or ever after showing any displeasure. The Duke of York, who was for
some time cried up as the prodigy of the family, is as profligate, and of less understanding.
To these particular traits, from a man of sense and truth, it would be superfluous to add the
general terms of praise or blame, in which he is spoken of by other persons, in whose impartiality
and penetration, I have less confidence. A sample is better than a description. For the peace
of Europe, it is best that the King should give such gleamings of recovery, as would prevent
the regent or his ministry from thinking themselves firm, and yet, that he should not recover.
This country advances with a steady pace towards the establishment of a constitution, whereby
the people will resume the great mass of those powers, so fatally lodged in the hands of the
King. During the session of the Notables, and after their votes against the rights of the people,
the Parliament of Paris took up the subject, and passed a vote in opposition to theirs, (which
I send you.) This was not their genuine sentiment: it was a manuvre of the young members,
who are truly well disposed, taking advantage of the accidental absence of many old members,
and bringing others over by the clause, which, while it admits the negative of the States General
in legislation, reserves still to the parliament the right of enregistering, that is to say,
another negative. The Notables persevered in their opinion. The Princes of the blood (Monsieur
and the Duke d'Orleans excepted) presented and published a memoire, threatening a scission.
The parliament were proposing to approve of that memoire (by way of rescinding their former
vote), and were prevented from it by the threat of a young member, to impeach (denoncer) the
memoire and the Princes who signed it. The vote of the Notables, therefore, remaining balanced
by that of the parliament, the voice of the nation becoming loud and general for the rights
of the Tiers-Etat, a strong probability that if they were not allowed one half the representation,
they would send up their members with express instructions to agree to no tax and to no adoption
of the public debts, and the court really wishing to give them a moiety of the representation,
this was decided on ultimately. You are not to suppose that these dispositions of the court
proceed from any love of the people, or justice towards their rights. Courts love the people
always, as wolves do the sheep. The fact is this. The court wants money. From the Tiers-Etat
they cannot get it, because they are already squeezed to the last drop. The clergy and the
nobles, by their privileges and their influence, have hitherto screened their property, in
a great degree, from public contribution. That half of the orange, then, remains yet to be
squeezed, and for this operation there is no agent powerful enough, but the people. They are,
therefore, brought forward as the favorites of the court, and will be supported by them. The
moment of crisis will be the meeting of the States; because their first act will be, to decide
whether they shall vote by persons or by orders. The clergy will leave nothing unattempted
to obtain the latter; for they see that the spirit of reformation will not confine itself to
the political, but will extend to the ecclesiastical establishment also. With respect to the
nobles, the younger members are generally for the people, and the middle aged are daily coming
over to the same side: so that by the time the States meet, we may hope there will be a majority
of that body, also, in favor of the people, and consequently for voting by persons, and not
by orders.

You will perceive, by the report of Mr. Necker (in the gazette of France), 1. a renewal of
the renunciation of the power of imposing a new tax by the King, and a like renunciation of
the power of continuing any old one; 2. an acknowledgment that the States are to appropriate
the public monies, which will go to the binding the court to a civil list; 3. a consent to
the periodical meeting of the States; 4. to consider of the restrictions of which lettres de
cachet are susceptible; 5. the degree of liberty to be given to the press; 6. a bill of rights;
and 7. there is a passage which looks towards the responsibility of ministers. Nothing is said
of communicating to them a share in the legislation. The ministry, perhaps, may be unwilling
to part with this, but it will be insisted on in the States. The letters of convocation will
not appear till towards the latter end of the month: neither time nor place are yet declared,
but Versailles is talked of, and we may well presume that some time in April will be fixed
on. In the mean time, Mr. Necker gets money to keep the machine in motion. Their funds rose
slowly, but steadily, till within these few days, when there was a small check. However, they
stand very well, and will rise. The caisse d'escompte lent the government twenty-five millions,
two days ago. The navy of this country sustained a heavy loss lately, by the death of the Bailli
de Suffrein. He was appointed Generalissimo of the Atlantic, when war was hourly expected with
England, and is certainly the officer on whom the nation would have reposed its principal hopes,
in such a case. We just now hear of the death of the Speaker of the House of Commons, before
the nomination of a regent, which adds a new embarrassment to the re-establishment of government
in England. Since writing mine of November the 29th, yours of the 23rd of September has come
to hand. As the General of the Mathurins was to be employed in the final redemption of our
captives, I thought that their previous support had better be put into his hands, and conducted
by himself in such a way as not to counterwork his plan of redemption, whenever we can enable
him to begin on it. I gave him full powers as to the amount and manner of subsisting them.
He has undertaken it, informing me, at the same time, that it will be on a very low scale,
to avoid suspicion of its coming from the public. He spoke of but three sous a day per man,
as being sufficient for their physical necessaries, more than which, he thinks it not advisable
to give. I have no definitive answer yet from our bankers, whether we may count on the whole
million last agreed to be borrowed, but I have no doubt of it, from other information, though
I have not their formal affirmative. The gazettes of Leyden and France to this date, accompany
this.

Paris, January 12, 1789.

Dear Sir,

My last to you was of the 18th of November; since which, I have received yours of the 21st
of September, and October the 8th, with the pamphlet on the Mohicon language, for which, receive
my thanks. I endeavor to collect all the vocabularies I can of the American Indians, as of
those of Asia, persuaded, that if they ever had a common parentage, it will appear in their
languages.

I was pleased to see the vote of Congress, of September the 16th, on the subject of the Mississippi,
as I had before seen, with great uneasiness, the pursuit of other principles, which I could
never reconcile to my own ideas of probity or wisdom, and from which, and my knowledge of the
character of our western settlers, I saw that the loss of that country was a necessary consequence.
I wish this return to true policy may be in time to prevent evil. There has been a little foundation
for the reports and fears relative to the Marquis de la Fayette. He has, from the beginning,
taken openly part with those who demand a constitution; and there was a moment that we apprehended
the Bastile: but they ventured on nothing more, than to take from him a temporary service,
on which he had been ordered; and this, more to save appearances for their own authority, than
any thing else; for at the very time they pretended that they had put him into disgrace, they
were constantly conferring and communicating with him. Since this, he has stood on safe ground,
and is viewed as among the foremost of the patriots. Every body here is trying their hand at
forming declarations of rights. As something of that kind is going on with you also, I send
you two specimens from hence. The one is by our friend of whom I have just spoken. You will
see that it contains the essential principles of ours, accommodated as much as could be, to
the actual state of things here. The other is from a very sensible man, a pure theorist, of
the sect called the Economists, of which Turgot was considered as the head. The former is adapted
to the existing abuses, the latter goes to those possible, as well as to those existing.

With respect to Doctor Spence, supposed to have been taken by the Algerines, I think the report
extremely improbable. O'Bryan, one of our captives there, has constantly written to me, and
given me information on every subject he thought interesting. He could not have failed to know
if such a capture had been made, though before his time, nor to inform me of it. I am under
perpetual anxiety for our captives there. The money, indeed, is not yet ready at Amsterdam;
but when it shall be, there are no orders from the board of treasury to the bankers, to furnish
what may be necessary for the redemption of the captives: and it is so long since Congress
approved the loan, that the orders of the treasury for the application of the money would have
come, if they had intended to send any. I wrote to them early on the subject, and pointedly.
I mentioned it to Mr. Jay also, merely that he might suggest it to them. The payments to the
foreign officers will await the same formality.

I thank you for your attention to the case of Mrs. Burke. We have no news of Doctor Franklin
since July last, when he was very ill. Though the silence of our letters on that subject is
a proof that he is well, yet there is an anxiety here among his friends. We have lately had
three books published, which are of great merit, in different lines. The one is in seven volumes,
octavo, by an Abbe Barthelemy, wherein he has collected every subject of Grecian Literature,
after a labor of thirty years. It is called 'Les Voyages d'Anacharsis.' I have taken a copy
for you, because the whole impression was likely to be run off at once. The second is a work
on government, by the Marquis de Condorcet, two volumes, octavo. I shall secure you a copy.
The third are the works of the King of Prussia, in sixteen volumes, octavo. These were a little
garbled at Berlin, before printed. The government lays its hands on all which come here, and
change some leaves. There is a genuine edition published at Basle, where even the garblings
of Berlin are re-established. I doubt the possibility of getting a copy, so vigilant is the
government as to this work. I shall obtain you one, if it be possible. As I write all the public
news to Mr. Jay, I will not repeat it to you. I have just received the Flora Caroliniana of
Walter, a very learned and good work.

Sir,

Paris, January 14, 1789.

In my letter of the 11th, I have said nothing of the Arrêt explanatory of that of September
the 28th, on the subject of whale-oils, which my letter of November the 19th gave you reason
to expect. Though this explanatory Arrêt has been passed so long ago as the 7th of December,
it has not been possible for me to obtain an authentic copy of it, till last night. I now enclose
that to you, with a copy of a letter to me from Mr. Necker, on the subject. The reception of
our oils in the mean time, is provided for by an intermediate order. You will observe, that
in the Arrêt it is said to be passed 'provisoirement,' and that Mr. Necker expressly holds
up to us in his letter, a repeal, whenever the national fishery supplies their wants. The Arrêt,
however, is not limited in its duration, and we have several chances against its repeal. It
may be questioned, whether Mr. Necker thinks the fishery worth the expense. It may be well
questioned, whether, either with or without encouragement, the nation, whose navigation is
the least economical of all in Europe, can ever succeed in the whale-fishery, which calls for
the most rigorous economy. It is hoped that a share in the legislation will pass immediately
into the hands of the States General, so as to be no longer in the power of the commis of a
bureau, or even of his minister, to smuggle a law through, unquestioned; and we may even hope
that the national demand for this oil will increase faster than both their and our fisheries
together will supply. But in spite of all these hopes, if the English should find means to
cover their oils under our name, there will be great danger of a repeal. It is essential, then,
that our government take effectual measures to prevent the English from obtaining genuine sea-papers,
that they enable their consuls in the ports of France (as soon as they shall be named) to detect
counterfeit papers, and that we convince this government that we use our best endeavors, with
good faith, as it is clearly our interest to do; for the rivalship of the English is the only
one we have to fear. It had already begun to render our oils invendible in the ports of France.
You will observe that Mr. Necker renews the promise of taking off the ten sous pour livre,
at the end of the next year.

Oczakow is at length taken by assault. The assailants were fourteen thousand, and the garrison
twelve thousand, of whom seven thousand were cut to pieces before they surrendered. The Russians
lost three thousand men. This is the Russian version, of which it is safe to believe no part,
but that Oczakow is taken. The Speaker of the English House of Commons, having died suddenly,
they have chosen Mr. Grenville, a young man of twenty-seven years of age. This proves that.
Mr. Pitt is firm with the present parliament.

Paris, January 24, 1789.

I have received, Madam, with a great deal of sensibility, the letter of the 22nd instant, with
which you were pleased to honor me on the claims of Monsieur Klein against the United States;
and immediately endeavored to inform myself of their foundation, by an examination of the journals
of Congress. Congress consisting of many persons, can only speak by the organ of their records.
If they have any engagements, they are to be found there. If not found there, they can never
have existed. I proceeded to this examination, with all the partialities which were naturally
inspired by the interest you are so good as to take in his behalf, the desire of doing what
will be agreeable to you, and a disposition to obtain for him the justice which might be his
due. I have extracted, literally, from those journals, every thing I find in them on his subject,
and I take the liberty of enclosing you those extracts. From them, as well as from what I recollect
of the ordinary train of business about the years 1778 and 1779, I presume the following to
be very nearly the history of Monsieur Klein's case.

Congress were generally desirous of adding to their army during the war. Among other methods
attempted, it was usual for foreigners (multitudes of whom went to ask command), when they
found there was no vacancy, to propose to raise troops themselves, on condition they should
have commissions to command them. I suppose that Messrs. Klein, Fearer, and Kleinsmit (named
in the resolution of Congress of 1778, and whom, from their names, I conjecture to be Germans)
offered to enlist a body of men from among the German prisoners taken with General Burgoyne
at Saratoga, on condition that Fearer and Kleinsmit should be captains over them, and Klein,
lieutenant colonel. Three months seem to have been allowed them for raising their corps. However,
at the end of ten months it seems they had engaged but twenty-four men, and that all of these,
except five, had deserted. Congress, therefore, put an end to the project, June the 21st, 1779,
(and not in July, 1780, as Monsieur Klein says) by informing him they had no further use for
his services, and giving him a year's pay and subsistence to bring him to Europe. He chose
to stay there three and a half longer, as he says, to solicit what was due to him. Nothing
could ever have been due to him, but pay and subsistence for the ten months he was trying to
enlist men, and the donation of a year's pay and subsistence; and it is not probable he would
wait three years and a half to receive these. I suppose he has staid, in hopes of finding some
other opening for employment. If these articles of pay and subsistence have not been paid to
him, he has the certificates of the paymaster and commissary to prove it; because it was an
invariable rule, when demands could not be paid, to give the party a certificate, to establish
the sum due to him. If he has not such a certificate, it is a proof he has been paid. If he
has it, he can produce it, and in that case, I will undertake to represent his claim to our
government, and will answer for their justice.

It would be easy to correct several inaccuracies in the letter of Monsieur Klein, such as that
Congress engaged to give him a regiment; that he paid the recruiting money out of his own pocket;
that his soldiers had nothing but bread and water; that Congress had promised him they would
pay his soldiers in specie, &c.; some of which are impossible, and others very improbable;
but these would be details too lengthy, Madam, for you to be troubled with. Klein's object
is to be received at the hospital of invalids. I presume he is not of the description of persons
entitled to be received there, and that his American commission and American grievances are
the only ground he has, whereon to raise a claim to reception. He has therefore tried to make
the most of them. Few think there is any immorality in scandalizing governments or ministers;
and M. Klein's distresses render this resource more innocent in him, than it is in most others.

Your commands, Madam, to give what information I could, have drawn thus much from me. I would
not wish to weaken the hopes he so justly rests on your, known goodness and benevolence. On
the contrary, the weaker his claims elsewhere, the stronger they will plead in your bosom to
procure him relief; and whatever may be done for him here, I repeat it, that if he has any
just demand against the United States, and will furnish me with proofs of it, I will solicit
it with zeal, and, I trust, with effect. To procure him justice will be one gratification,
and a great additional one will be, that he has procured me the occasion of offering you my
portion of the general tribute so justly due, for all the good you have done, and all you are
perpetually endeavoring to do.

Paris, February 1, 1789.

Sir,

My last letters have been of the 11th, 14th, and 21st of January. The present conveyance being
through the post to Havre, from whence a vessel is to sail for New York, I avail myself of
it, principally to send you the newspapers. That of Leyden of the 24th, contains a note of
the Chargé des Affaires of France, at Warsaw, which is interesting. It shows a concert between
France and Russia; it is a prognostication that Russia will interfere in the affairs of Poland,
and if she does, it is most probable that the King of Prussia must be drawn into the war. The
revolution which has taken place in Geneva, is a remarkable and late event. With the loss of
only two or three lives, and in the course of one week, riots, begun at first on account of
a rise in the price of bread, were improved and pointed to a reformation of their constitution;
and their ancient constitution has been almost completely re-established. Nor do I see any
reason to doubt of the permanence of the re-establishment. The King of England has shown such
marks of returning reason, that the regency bill was postponed in the House of Lords, on the
19th instant. It seems now probable, there may be no change of the ministry, perhaps no regent.
We may be sure, however, that the present ministry make the most of those favorable symptoms.
There has been a riot in Brittany, begun on account of the price of bread, but converted into
a quarrel between the Noblesse and Tiers-Etat. Some few lives were lost in it. All is quieted
for the present moment. In Burgundy and Franche Compte, the opposition of the nobles to the
views of government is very warm. Every where else, however, the revolution is going on quietly
and steadily, and the public mind ripening so fast, that there is great reason to hope a good
result from the States General. Their numbers (about twelve hundred) give room to fear, indeed,
that they may be turbulent. Having never heard of Admiral Paul Jones since the action, in which
he took a part before Oczakow, I began to be a little uneasy. But I have now received a letter
from him, dated at St. Petersburg, the 31 st of January, where he had just arrived, at the
desire of the Empress. He has hitherto commanded on the Black Sea. He does not know whether
he shall be employed there, or where, the ensuing campaign. I have no other interesting intelligence,
which would not lead me into details, improper for the present mode of conveyance.

Paris, February 4, 1789.

Sir,

Your favor of November the 25th, by Gouverneur Morris, is duly received. I must beg you to
take the trouble of deciphering yourself what follows, and to communicate it to nobody but
the President, at least for the present.

We had before understood, through different channels, that the conduct of the Count de Moustier
was politically and morally offensive. It was delicate for me to speak on the subject to the
Count de Montmorin. The invaluable mediation of our friend, the Marquis de la Fayette, was
therefore resorted to, and the subject explained, though not pressed. Later intelligence showing
the necessity of pressing it, it was yesterday resumed, and represented through the same medium
to the Count de Montmorin, that recent information proved to us, that his minister's conduct
had rendered him personally odious in America, and might even influence the dispositions of
the two nations; that his recall was become a matter of mutual concern; that we had understood
he was instructed to remind the new government of their debt to this country, and that he was
in the purpose of doing it in very harsh terms; that this could not increase their desire of
hastening payment, and might wound their affections: that, therefore, it was much to be desired
that his discretion should not be trusted to, as to the form in which the demand should be
made, but that the letter should be written here, and he instructed to add nothing but his
signature: nor was his private conduct omitted. The Count de Montmorin was sensibly impressed.
He very readily determined that the letter should be formed here, but said that the recall
was a more difficult business: that as they had no particular fact to allege against the Count
de Moustier, they could not recall him from that ministry, without giving him another, and
there was no vacancy at present. However, he would hazard his first thoughts on the subject,
saving the right of correcting them by further consideration. They were these: that there was
a loose expression in one of de Moustier's letters, which might be construed into a petition
for leave of absence; that he would give him permission to return to France; that it had been
before decided, on the request of the Marquis de la Luzerne, that Otto should go to him to
London; that they would send a person to America as Chargé des Affaires in place of Otto, and
that if the President (General Washington) approved of him, he should be afterwards made minister.
He had cast his eye on Colonel Ternant, and desired the Marquis to consult me, whether he would
be agreeable. At first I hesitated, recollecting to have heard Ternant represented in America,
as an hypochondriac, discontented man, and paused for a moment between him and Barthelemy,
at London, of whom I have heard a great deal of good. However, I concluded it safer to take
one whom we knew and who knew us. The Marquis was decidedly of this opinion. Ternant will see
that his predecessor is recalled for unconciliatory deportment, and that he will owe his own
promotion to the approbation of the President. He established a solid reputation in Europe,
by his conduct when Generalissimo of one of the United Provinces, during their late disturbances;
and it is generally thought, that if he had been put at the head of the principal province,
instead of the Rhingrave de Salm, he would have saved that cause. Upon the whole, I believe
you may expect that the Count de Moustier will have an immediate leave of absence, which will
soon after become a recall in effect. I will try also to have the consuls admonished as to
the line of conduct they should observe. I shall have the honor of writing you a general letter,
within a few days.

Paris, February 9,1789.

Dear Sir,

I wrote you last on the 22nd of January, on which day I received yours of December the 31st,
and since that, the other of January the 14th. We have now received news from America down
to the middle of December. They had then had no cold weather. All things relative to our new
constitution were going on well. Federal senators are; New Hampshire, President Langdon and
Bartlett. Massachusetts, Strong and Dalton. Connecticut, Dr. Johnson and Ellsworth. New Jersey,
Patterson and Ellmer. Pennsylvania, Robert Morris and M'Clay. Delaware, Reed and Bassett. Virginia,
Richard Henry Lee and Grayson. Maryland, Charles Carroll, of Carrolton, and John Henry. All
of these are federalists, except those of Virginia; so that a majority of federalists are secured
in the Senate, and expected in the House of Representives. General Washington will be President,
and probably Mr. Adams Vice-President. So that the constitution will be put under way by those
who will give it a fair trial. It does not seem probable that the attempt of New York, to have
another convention to make amendments, will succeed, though Virginia concurs in it. It is tolerably
certain that Congress will propose amendments to the Assemblies, as even the friends of the
constitution are willing to make amendments; some from a conviction they are necessary, others,
from a spirit of conciliation. The addition of a bill of rights will, probably, be the most
essential change. A vast majority of anti-federalists have got into the Assembly of Virginia,
so that Mr. Henry is omnipotent there. Mr. Madison was left out as a senator by eight or nine
votes; and Henry has so modeled the districts for representatives, as to tack Orange to counties
where himself has great influence, that Madison may not be elected into the lower federal House,
which was the place he had wished to serve in, and not the Senate. Henry pronounced a philippic
against Madison in open Assembly, Madison being then at Philadelphia. Mifflin is President
of Pennsylvania, and Peters, Speaker. Colonel Howard is Governor of Maryland. Beverly Randolph,
Governor of Virginia; (this last is said by a passenger only, and he seems not very sure.)
Colonel Humphreys is attacked in the papers for his French airs, for bad poetry, bad prose,
vanity, &c. It is said his dress, in so gay a style, gives general disgust against him. I have
received a letter from him. He seems fixed with General Washington. Mayo's bridge, at Richmond,
was completed, and carried away in a few weeks. While up, it was so profitable that he had
great offers for it. A turnpike is established at Alexandria, and succeeds. Rhode Island has
again refused to call a convention. Spain has granted to Colonel Morgan, of New Jersey, a vast
tract of land on the western side of the Mississippi, with the monopoly of the navigation of
that river. He is inviting settlers, and they swarm to him. Even the settlement of Kentucky
is likely to be much weakened by emigrations to Morgan's grant. Warville has returned, charmed
with our country. He is going to carry his wife and children to settle there. Gouverneur Morris
has just arrived here; deputed, as is supposed, to settle Robert Morris's affairs, which continue
still deranged. Doctor Franklin was well when he left America, which was about the middle of
December.

*****

I send Mr. Rutledge two letters by this post.

Paris, February 10, 1789.

Sir,

I take the liberty of troubling your Excellency with the following case, which I understand
to be within your department. Mr. Jay, secretary for Foreign Affairs, to the United States
of America, having occasion to send me despatches of great importance, and by a courier express,
confided them to a Mr. Nesbitt, who offered himself in that character. He has delivered them
safely: but, in the moment of delivering them, explained to me his situation, which is as follows.
He was established in commerce at L'Orient, during the war. Losses by shipwreck, by capture,
and by the conclusion of the peace at a moment when he did not expect it, reduced him to bankruptcy,
and he returned to America, with the consent of his creditors, to make the most of his affairs
there. He has been employed in this ever since, and now wishing to see his creditors, and to
consult them on their mutual interests, he availed himself of Mr. Jay's demand for a courier,
to come under the safe conduct of that character to Paris, where he flattered himself he might
obtain that of your Excellency, for the purpose of seeing his creditors, settling, and arranging
with them. He thinks a twelvemonth will be necessary for this. Understanding that it is not
unusual to grant safe conducts in such cases, and persuaded it will be for the benefit of his
creditors, I take the liberty of enclosing his memoir to your Excellency, and of soliciting
your favorable attention to it, assured that it will not be denied him, if it be consistent
with the established usage; and if inadmissible, praying that your Excellency will have the
goodness to give me as early an answer as the other arduous occupations in which you are engaged,
will admit, in order that he may know whether he may see his creditors, or must return without.

Paris, February 15,1789.

Sir,

I am now to acknowledge the receipt of your favors of January the 23rd, and February the 9th
and 10th. Your departure for America so soon, puzzles me as to the finishing the affair of
Schweighaeuser and Dobree, in which I could have reposed myself on you. It remains, that I
ask you to recommend some person who may be perfectly relied on, in that business. In fact,
it is probably the only one I shall have occasion to trouble them with before my own departure
for America, which I expect to take place in May; and I fix my return to Paris, in December.
While I ask your recommendation of a person to finish Dobree's business with fidelity, I must
ask your secrecy on the subject of that very business, so as not to name it at all, even to
the person you shall recommend.

With respect to the distressed American who needs one hundred and forty livres to enable him
to return to America, I have no authority to apply any public monies to that purpose, and the
calls of that nature are so numerous, that I am obliged to refuse myself to them in my private
capacity. As to Captain Newell's case, you are sensible, that being in the channel of the laws
of the land, to ask a special order from government, would expose us, in reciprocity to like
demands from them in America, to which our laws would never permit us to accede. Speaking conscientiously,
we must say it is wrong in any government to interrupt the regular course of justice. A minister
has no right to intermeddle in a private suit, but when the laws of the country have been palpably
perverted to the prejudice of his countryman.

When you shall be so kind as to recommend to me a correspondent in your port during your absence,
I will ask the favor of you also to give me some idea of the time you expect to return.

Paris, March 2, 1789

Dear Sir,

I have just received a letter of January the 31st from Admiral Paul Jones, at Petersburg, which
charging me with the execution of some commissions, and these requiring money, he tells me
you will answer my drafts, to the amount of four or five thousand livres, on his account. Be
so good as to inform me whether you will pay such drafts.

A Monsieur Foulloy, who has been connected with Deane, lately offered me for sale two volumes
of Deane's letter books and account books, that he had taken instead of money, which Deane
owed him. I have purchased them on public account. He tells me Deane has still six or eight
volumes more, and being to return soon to London, he will try to get them also, in order to
make us pay high for them. You are sensible of the impropriety of letting such books get into
hands which might make an unfriendly use of them. You are sensible of the immorality of an
ex-minister's selling his secrets for money and, consequently, that there can be no immorality
in tempting him with money to part with them; so that they may be restored to that government
to whom they properly belong. Your former acquaintance with Deane may, perhaps, put it in your
power to render our country the service of recovering those books. It would not do to propose
it to him as for Congress. What other way would best bring it about, you know best. I suppose
his distresses and his crapulous habits will not render him difficult on this head. On the
supposition that there are six or eight volumes, I think you might venture as far as fifty
guineas, and proportionably for fewer. I will answer your draft to this amount and purpose,
or you may retain it out of any monies you may propose to pay me for admiral Jones. There is
no time to lose in this negotiation, as, should Foulloy arrive there before it is closed, he
will spoil the bargain. If you should be able to recover these books, I would ask the favor
of you to send them to me by the Diligence, that I may carry them back with me to America.
I make no apology for giving you this trouble. It is for our common country, and common interest.

Sir,

Paris, March 11, 1789.

Your zeal to promote the general good of mankind, by an interchange of useful things, and particularly
in the line of agriculture, and the weight which your rank and station would give to your interposition,
induce me to ask it, for the purpose of obtaining one of the species of rice which grows in
Cochin-China on high lands, and which needs no other watering than the ordinary rains. The
sun and soil of Carolina are sufficiently powerful to insure the success of this plant, and
Monsieur de Poivre gives such an account of its quality, as might induce the Carolinians to
introduce it instead of the kind they now possess, which, requiring the whole country to be
laid under water during a certain season of the year, sweeps off numbers of the inhabitants
annually, with pestilential fevers.

Sir,

Paris, March 12, 1789.

I had the honor of addressing you, on the 1st instant, through the post. I write the present,
uncertain whether Mr. Nesbitt, the bearer of your last, will be the bearer of this, or whether
it may not have to wait some other private occasion. They have reestablished their packet-boats
here, indeed; but they are to go from Bordeaux, which, being between four and five hundred
miles from hence, is too far to send a courier with any letters but on the most extraordinary
occasions and without a courier, they must pass through the post-office. I shall, therefore,
not make use of this mode of conveyance, but prefer sending my letters by a private hand by
the way of London. The uncertainty of finding private conveyances to London, is the principal
objection to this.

On the receipt of your letter, advising me to purchase the two volumes of Deane's letters and
accounts, I wrote to the person who had them, and after some offers and refusals, he let me
have them for twenty-five louis, instead of twenty louis asked at first. He told me that Deane
had still six or eight volumes more, and that when he should return to London he would try
to get them, in order to make himself whole for the money he had lent Deane. As I knew he would
endeavor to make us pay dear for them, and it appeared to be your opinion, and that of the
members you had consulted, that it was an object worthy attention, I wrote immediately to a
friend in London to endeavor to purchase them from Deane himself, whose distresses and crapulous
habits will probably render him more easy to deal with. I authorized him to go as far as fifty
guineas. I have as yet no answer from him. I enclose you a letter which I wrote last month
to our bankers in Holland. As it will itself explain the cause of its being written, I shall
not repeat its substance here. In answer to my proposition, to pay bills for the medals and
the redemption of our captives, they quote a resolution of Congress (which, however, I do not
find in the printed journals), appropriating the loans of 1787 and 1788 to the payment of interest
on the Dutch loans till 1790, inclusive, and the residue to salaries and contingencies in Europe,
and they argue, that, according to this, they are not to pay any thing in Europe till they
shall first have enough to pay all the interest which will become due to the end of the year
1790; and that it is out of personal regard, that they relax from this so far as to pay diplomatic
salaries. So that here is a clear declaration they will answer no other demands, till they
have in hand money enough for all the interest to the end of the year 1790. It is but a twelvemonth
since I have had occasion to pay attention to the proceedings of those gentlemen; but during
that time I have observed, that as soon as a sum of interest is becoming due, they are able
to borrow just that, and no more; or at least only so much more as may pay our salaries, and
keep us quiet. Were they not to borrow for the interest, the failure to pay that would sink
the value of the capital, of which they are considerable sharers. So far their interests and
ours concur. But there, perhaps, they may separate. I think it possible they may choose to
support our credit to a certain point, and let it go no further, but at their will; to keep
it so poised, as that it may be at their mercy. By this, they will be sure to keep us in their
own hands. They write word to the treasury, that in order to raise money for the February interest,
they were obliged to agree with the subscribers, that Congress should open no other loan at
Amsterdam this year, till this one be filled up, and that this shall not be filled but by the
present subscribers, and they not obliged to fill it. This is delivering us, bound hand and
foot, to the subscribers, that is, to themselves. Finding that they would not raise money for
any other purposes, without being pushed, I wrote the letter I enclose you. They answer, as
I have stated, by refusing to pay, alleging the appropriation of Congress. I have written again
to press them further, and to propose to them the payment of thirty thousand florins only,
for the case of our captives, as I am in hopes this may do. In the close of my letter to them,
you will observe I refer them, as to the article of foreign officers, to the board of treasury.
I had, in truth, received the printed journals a few days before, but had not yet had time
to read them carefully, and, particularly, had not then noted the vote of Congress of August
the 20th, directing me to attend to that article. I shall not fail to do what I can in it;
but I am afraid they will consider this also as standing on the same ground with the other
contingent articles.

This country, being generally engaged in its elections, affords nothing new and worthy of communication.
The hopes of accommodation between Turkey and the two empires do not gain strength. The war
between Russia and Denmark on the one hand, and Sweden on the other, is likely also to go on,
the mediation of England being rendered of little force by the accident to its Executive. The
progress of this war, and also of the broils in Poland, may possibly draw the King of Prussia
into it during the ensuing campaign: and it must, before it be finished, take in this country,
and perhaps England. The ill humor on account of the Dutch revolution continues to rankle here.
They have recalled their ambassador from the Hague, manifestly to show their dissatisfaction
with that court, and some very dry memorials have lately been exchanged on the subject of the
money this country assumed to pay the Emperor for the Dutch. I send you very full extracts
of these, which will show you the dispositions of the two courts towards each other. Whether,
and when this country will be able to take an active part, will depend on the issue of their
States General. If they fund their public debts judiciously, and will provide further funds
for a war, on the English plan, 1 believe they will be able to borrow any sums they please.
In the mean time, the situation of England will leave them at leisure to settle their internal
affairs well. That ministry, indeed, pretend their King is perfectly re-established. No doubt
they will make the most of his amendment, which is real, to a certain degree. But as, under
pretence of this, they have got rid of the daily certificate of the physicians, and they are
possessed of the King's person, the public must judge hereafter from such facts only as they
can catch. There are several at present, which, put together, induce a presumption that the
King is only better, not well. And should he be well, time will be necessary to give a confidence,
that it is not merely a lucid interval. On the whole, I think we may conclude that that country
will not take a part in the war this year, which was by no means certain before.

M. del Pinto, formerly minister of Portugal at London, and the same who negotiated the treaty
with us, being now put at the head of the ministry of that country, I presume that negotiation
may be renewed successfully, if it be the desire of our government. Perhaps an admission of
our flour into their ports may be obtained now, as M. del Pinto seemed impressed with our reasoning
on that subject, and promised to press it on his court, though he could not then venture to
put it into the treaty. There is not the same reason to hope any relaxation as to our reception
in Brazil, because he would scarcely let us mention that at all. I think, myself, it is their
interest to take away all temptations to our cooperation in the emancipation of their colonies;
and I know no means of doing this, but the making it our interest that they should continue
dependant, nor any other way of making this our interest, but by allowing us a commerce with
them. However, this is a mode of reasoning which their ministry, probably, could not bear to
listen to. I send herewith the gazettes of France and Leyden, and have the honor to be, Sir,
your most obedient and most humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CLXXXIX.--TO F. HOPKINSON, March 13, 1789

TO F. HOPKINSON.

Paris, March 13, 1789.

Dear Sir,

Since my last, which was of December the 21st, yours of December the 9th and 21st are received.
Accept my thanks for the papers and pamphlets which accompanied them, and mine and my daughters
for the book of songs. I will not tell you how much they have pleased us, nor how well the
last of them merits praise for its pathos, but relate a fact only, which is, that while my
elder daughter was playing it on the harpsichord, I happened to look towards the fire, and
saw the younger one all in tears. I asked her if she was sick? She said, 'No; but the tune
was so mournful.'

The Editor of the Encyclopédie has published something as to an advanced price on his future
volumes, which, I understand, alarms the subscribers. It was in a paper which I do not take,
and therefore I have not yet seen it, nor can I say what it is. I hope that by this time you
have ceased to make wry faces about your vinegar, and that you have received it safe and good.
You say that I have been dished up to you as an anti-federalist, and ask me if it be just.
My opinion was never worthy enough of notice, to merit citing; but since you ask it, I will
tell it to you. I am not a federalist, because I never submitted the whole system of my opinions
to the creed of any party of men whatever, in religion, in philosophy, in politics, or in any
thing else, where I was capable of thinking for myself. Such an addiction is the last degradation
of a free and moral agent. If I could not go to heaven but with a party, I would not go there
at all. Therefore, I protest to you, I am not of the party of federalists. But I am much farther
from that of the anti-federalists. I approved, from the first moment, of the great mass of
what is in the new constitution; the consolidation of the government; the organization into
executive, legislative, and judiciary; the subdivision of the legislative; the happy compromise
of interests between the great and little States, by the different manner of voting in the
different Houses; the voting by persons instead of States; the qualified negative on laws given
to the executive, which, however, I should have liked better if associated with the judiciary
also, as in New York; and the power of taxation. I thought at first that the latter might have
been limited. A little reflection soon convinced me it ought not to be. What I disapproved
from the first moment, also, was the want of a bill of rights, to guard liberty against the
legislative as well as executive branches of the government; that is to say, to secure freedom
in religion, freedom of the press, freedom from monopolies, freedom from unlawful imprisonment,
freedom from a permanent military, and a trial by jury, in all cases determinable by the laws
of the land. I disapproved, also, the perpetual re-eligibility of the President. To these points
of disapprobation I adhere. My first wish was, that the nine first conventions might accept
the constitution, as the means of securing to us the great mass of good it contained, and that
the four last might reject it, as the means of obtaining amendments. But I was corrected in
this wish, the moment I saw the much better plan of Massachusetts, and which had never occurred
to me. With respect to the declaration of rights, I suppose the majority of the United States
are of my opinion: for I apprehend all the anti-federalists, and a very respectable proportion
of the federalists, think that such a declaration should now be annexed. The enlightened part
of Europe have given us the greatest credit for inventing this instrument of security for the
rights of the people, and have been not a little surprised to see us so soon give it up. With
respect to the re-eligibility of the President, I find myself differing from the majority of
my countrymen; for I think there are but three States of the eleven which have desired an alteration
of this. And, indeed, since the thing is established, I would wish it not to be altered during
the life of our great leader, whose executive talents are superior to those, I believe, of
any man in the world, and who, alone, by the authority of his name, and the confidence reposed
in his perfect integrity, is fully qualified to put the new government so under way, as to
secure it against the efforts of opposition. But having derived from our error all the good
there was in it, I hope we shall correct it, the moment we can no longer have the same name
at the helm.

These, my dear friend, are my sentiments, by which you will see I was right in saying, I am
neither federalist nor anti-federalist; that I am of neither party, nor yet a trimmer between
parties. These, my opinions, I wrote, within a few hours after I had read the constitution,
to one or two friends in America. I had not then read one single word printed on the subject.
I never had an opinion in politics or religion, which I was afraid to own. A costive reserve
on these subjects might have procured me more esteem from some people, but less from myself.
My great wish is, to go on in a strict but silent performance of my duty: to avoid attracting
notice, and to keep my name out of newspapers, because I find the pain of a little censure,
even when it is unfounded, is more acute than the pleasure of much praise. The attaching circumstance
of my present office, is, that I can do its duties unseen by those for whom they are done.
You did not think, by so short a phrase in your letter, to have drawn on yourself such an egotistical
dissertation. I beg your pardon for it, and will endeavor to merit that pardon by the constant
sentiments of esteem and attachment, with which I am, Dear Sir, your sincere friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXC.--TO MADAME DE BREHAN, March 14, 1789

TO MADAME DE BREHAN.

Paris, March 14, 1789.

Dear Madam,

I had the honor of writing to you on the 15th of February; soon after which, I had that of
receiving your favor of December the 29th. I have a thousand questions to ask you about your
journey to the Indian treaty, how you like their persons, their manners, their costumes, cuisine,
&c. But this I must defer till I can do it personally in New York, where I hope to see you
for a moment in the summer, and to take your commands for France. I have little to communicate
to you from this place. It is deserted: every body being gone into the country to choose or
be chosen deputies to the States General. I hope to see that great meeting before my departure.
It is to be on the 27th of next month. A great political revolution will take place in your
country, and that without bloodshed. A King with two hundred thousand men at his orders, is
disarmed by the force of the public opinion and the want of money. Among the economies becoming
necessary, perhaps one may be the opera. They say, it has cost the public treasury an hundred
thousand crowns the last year. A new theatre is established since your departure; that of the
Opera Buffone, where Italian operas are given, and good music. It is in the Château des Tuileries.
Paris is every day enlarging and beautifying. I do not count among its beauties, however, the
wall with which they have enclosed us. They have made some amends for this, by making fine
boulevards within and without the walls. These are in considerable forwardness, and will afford
beautiful rides round the city, of between fifteen and twenty miles in circuit. We have had
such a winter, Madam, as makes me shiver yet, whenever I think of it. All communications, almost,
were cut off. Dinners and suppers were suppressed, and the money laid out in feeding and warming
the poor, whose labors were suspended by the rigor of the season. Loaded carriages passed the
Seine on the ice, and it was covered with thousands of people from morning till night, skating
and sliding. Such sights were never seen before, and they continued two months. We have nothing
new and excellent in your charming art of painting. In fact, I do not feel an interest in any
pencil but that of David. But I must not hazard details on a subject wherein I am so ignorant,
and you such a connoisseur. Adieu, my dear Madam; permit me always the honor of esteeming and
being esteemed by you, and of tendering you the homage of that respectful attachment with which
I am, and shall ever be, Dear Madam, your most obedient, humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXCI.--TO JAMES MADISON, March 15, 1789

TO JAMES MADISON.

Paris, March 15, 1789.

Dear Sir,

I wrote you last on the 12th of January; since which I have received yours of October the 17th,
December the 8th and 12th. That of October the 17th came to hand only February the 23rd.

How it happened to be four months on the way, I cannot tell, as I never knew by what hand it
came. Looking over my letter of January the 12th, I remark an error of the word 'probable'
instead of' improbable,' which, doubtless, however, you had been able to correct.

Your thoughts on the subject of the declaration of rights, in the letter of October the 17th,
I have weighed with great satisfaction. Some of them had not occurred to me before, but were
acknowledged just, in the moment they were presented to my mind. In the arguments in favor
of a declaration of rights, you omit one which has great weight with me; the legal check which
it puts into the hands of the judiciary. This is a body, which, if rendered independent and
kept strictly to their own department, merits great confidence for their learning and integrity.
In fact, what degree of confidence would be too much, for a body composed of such men as Wythe,
Blair, and Pendleton? On characters like these, the 'civium ardor prava jubentium' would make
no impression. I am happy to find that, on the whole, you are a friend to this amendment. The
declaration of rights is, like all other human blessings, alloyed with some inconveniences,
and not accomplishing fully its object. But the good, in this instance, vastly overweighs the
evil. I cannot refrain from making short answers to the objections which your letter states
to have been raised. 1. That the rights in question are reserved, by the manner in which the
federal powers are granted. Answer. A constitutive act, may, certainly, be so formed, as to
need no declaration of rights. The act itself has the force of a declaration, as far as it
goes; and if it goes to all material points, nothing more is wanting. In the draught of a constitution
which I had once a thought of proposing in Virginia, and printed afterwards, I endeavored to
reach all the great objects of public liberty, and did not mean to add a declaration of rights.
Probably the object was imperfectly executed; but the deficiencies would have been supplied
by others, in the course of discussion. But in a constitutive act which leaves some precious
articles unnoticed, and raises implications against others, a declaration of rights becomes
necessary, by way of supplement. This is the case of our new federal constitution. This instrument
forms us into one State, as to certain objects, and gives us a legislative and executive body
for these objects. It should, therefore, guard us against their abuses of power, within the
field submitted to them. 2. A positive declaration of some essential rights could not be obtained
in the requisite latitude. Answer. Half a loaf is better than no bread. If we cannot secure
all our rights, let us secure what we can. 3. The limited powers of the federal government,
and jealousy of the subordinate governments, afford a security which exists in no other instance.
Answer. The first member of this seems resolvable into the first objection before stated. The
jealousy of the subordinate governments is a precious reliance. But observe that those governments
are only agents. They must have principles furnished them, whereon to found their opposition.
The declaration of rights will be the text, whereby they will try all the acts of the federal
government. In this view, it is necessary to the federal government also; as by the same text,
they may try the opposition of the subordinate governments. 4. Experience proves the inefficacy
of a bill of rights. True. But though it is not absolutely efficacious under all circumstances,
it is of great potency always, and rarely inefficacious. A brace the more will often keep up
the building which would have fallen, with that brace the less. There is a remarkable difference
between the characters of the inconveniences which attend a declaration of rights, and those
which attend the want of it. The inconveniences of the declaration are, that it may cramp government
in its useful exertions. But the evil of this is short-lived, moderate, and reparable. The
inconveniences of the want of a declaration are permanent, afflicting, and irreparable. They
are in constant progression from bad to worse. The executive, in our governments, is not the
sole, it is scarcely the principal object of my jealousy. The tyranny of the legislatures is
the most formidable dread at present, and will be for many years. That of the executive will
come in its turn; but it will be at a remote period. I know there are some among us, who would
now establish a monarchy. But they are inconsiderable in number and weight of character. The
rising race are all republicans. We were educated in royalism; no wonder, if some of us retain
that idolatry still. Our young people are educated in republicanism; an apostacy from that
to royalism is unprecedented and impossible. I am much pleased with the prospect that a declaration
of rights will be added; and I hope it will be done in that way, which will not endanger the
whole frame of government, or any essential part of it.

I have hitherto avoided public news in my letters to you, because your situation insured you
a communication of my letters to Mr. Jay. This circumstance being changed, I shall, in future,
indulge myself in these details to you. There had been some slight hopes that an accommodation
might be effected between the Turks and two empires; but these hopes do not strengthen, and
the season is approaching which will put an end to them, for another campaign at least. The
accident to the King of England has had great influence on the affairs of Europe. His mediation,
joined with that of Prussia, would certainly have kept Denmark quiet, and so have left the
two empires in the hands of the Turks and Swedes. But the inactivity to which England is reduced,
leaves Denmark more free, and she will probably go on in opposition to Sweden. The King of
Prussia, too, had advanced so far, that he can scarcely retire. This is rendered the more difficult
by the troubles he has excited in Poland. He cannot, well abandon the party he had brought
forward there; so that it is very possible he may be engaged in the ensuing campaign. France
will be quiet this year, because this year, at least, is necessary for settling her future
constitution. The States will meet the 27th of April: and the public mind will. I think, by
that time, be ripe for a just decision of the question, whether they shall vote by orders or
persons. I think there is a majority of the Nobles already for the latter. If so, their affairs
cannot but go on well. Besides settling for themselves a tolerably free constitution, perhaps
as free a one as the nation is as yet prepared to bear, they will fund their public debts.
This will give them such a credit, as will enable them to borrow any money they may want, and
of course, to take the field again, when they think proper. And I believe they mean to take
the field as soon as they can. The pride of every individual in the nation suffers under the
ignominies they have lately been exposed to, and I think the States General will give money
for a war, to wipe off the reproach. There have arisen new bickerings between this court and
that of the Hague; and the papers which have passed, show the most bitter acrimony rankling
at the heart of this ministry. They have recalled their ambassador from the Hague, without
appointing a successor. They have given a note to the Diet of Poland, which shows a disapprobation
of their measures. The insanity of the King of England has been fortunate for them, as it gives
them time to put their house in order. The English papers tell you the King is well; and even
the English ministry say so. They will naturally set the best foot foremost; and they guard
his person so well, that it is difficult for the public to contradict them. The King is probably
better, but not well, by a great deal. 1. He has been bled, and judicious physicians say, that
in his exhausted state, nothing could have induced a recurrence to bleeding, but symptoms of
relapse. 2. The Prince of Wales tells the Irish deputation, he will give them a definitive
answer in some days; but if the King had been well, he could have given it at once. 3. They
talk of passing a standing law, for providing a regency in similar cases. They apprehend then,
they are not yet clear of the danger of wanting a regency.

4. They have carried the King to church; but it was his private chapel. If he be well, why
do not they show him publicly to the nation, and raise them from that consternation into which
they have been thrown, by the prospect of being delivered over to the profligate hands of the
Prince of Wales. In short, judging from little facts, which are known in spite of their teeth,
the King is better, but not well. Possibly he is getting well, but still time will be wanting
to satisfy even the ministry, that it is not merely a lucid interval. Consequently, they cannot
interrupt France this year in the settlement of her affairs, and after this year it will be
too late.

As you will be in a situation to know when the leave of absence will be granted me, which I
have asked, will you be so good as to communicate it, by a line, to Mr. Lewis and Mr. Eppes?
I hope to see you in the summer, and that if you are not otherwise engaged, you will encamp
with me at Monticello for a while.

Paris, March 17,1789.

Dear Sir,

My last letter to you extended from December the 23rd to January the 11th. A confidential opportunity
now arising, I can acknowledge the receipt of yours of January the 15th, at the date of which
you could not have received mine.

You knew, long ago, that the meeting of the States is to be at Versailles, on the 27th of April.
This country is entirely occupied in its elections, which go on quietly and well. The Duke
d'Orleans is elected for Villers Cotterets. The Prince of Conde has lost the election he aimed
at; nor is it certain he can be elected any where. We have no news from Auvergne, whither the
Marquis de la Fayette is gone. In general, all the men of influence in the country are gone
into the several provinces, to get their friends elected, or be elected themselves. Since my
letter to you, a tumult arose in Bretagne, in which four or five lives were lost. They are
now quieter, and this is the only instance of a life lost, as yet, in this revolution. The
public mind is now so far ripened by time and discussion, that there seems to be but one opinion
on the principal points. The question of voting by persons or orders is the most controverted;
but even that seems to have gained already a majority among the Nobles. I fear more from the
number of the Assembly, than from any other cause. Twelve hundred persons are difficult to
keep to order, and will be so, especially, till they shall have had time to frame rules of
order. Their funds continue stationary, and at the level they have stood at for some years
past. We hear so little of the parliaments for some time past, that one is hardly sensible
of their existence. This unimportance is probably the forerunner of their total re-modification
by the nation. The article of legislation is the only interesting one on which the court has
not explicitly declared itself to the nation. The Duke d'Orleans has given instructions to
his proxies in the bailliages, which would be deemed bold in England, and are reasonable beyond
the reach of an Englishman, who, slumbering under a kind of half reformation in politics and
religion, is not excited by any thing he sees or feels, to question the remains of prejudice.
The writers of this country, now taking the field freely, and unrestrained, or rather revolted
by prejudice, will rouse us all from the errors in which we have been hitherto rocked.

We had, at one time, some hope, that an accommodation would have been effected between the
Turks and two empires. Probably the taking Oczakow, while it has attached the Empress more
to the Crimea, is not important enough to the Turks, to make them consent to peace. These hopes
are vanishing. Nor does there seem any prospect of peace between Russia and Sweden. The palsied
condition of England leaves it probable, that Denmark will pursue its hostilities against Sweden.
It does not seem certain whether the King of Prussia has advanced so far in that mediation,
and in the troubles he has excited in Poland, as to be obliged to become a party. Nor will
his becoming a party draw in this country, the present year, if England remains quiet. Papers
which have lately passed between this court and the government of Holland, prove that this
nourishes its discontent, and only waits to put its house in order, before it interposes. They
have recalled their ambassador from the Hague, without naming a successor. The King of Sweden,
not thinking that Russia and Denmark are enough for him, has arrested a number of his Nobles,
of principal rank and influence. It is a bold measure, at least, and he is too boyish a character
to authorize us to presume it a wise one, merely because he has adopted it. His army was before
disgusted. He now puts the Nobles and all their dependants on the same side, and they are sure
of armed support, by Russia on the north, and Denmark on the south. He can have no salvation
but in the King of Prussia.

I have received two letters from Ledyard, the one dated Alexandria, August the 15th, the other
Grand Cairo, September the 10th; and one lately from Admiral Paul Jones, dated St. Petersburg,
January the 31st. He was just arrived there, on the call of the Empress, and was uncertain
where he should be employed the next campaign. Mr. Littlepage has returned from the Black Sea
to Warsaw, where he has been perfectly received by the King. I saw this from under the King's
own hand, and was pleased with the parental expressions towards him.

We have no news from America later than the middle of January. My letters inform me, that even
the friends of the new constitution have come over to the expediency of adding a declaration
of rights. There is reason to hope that this will be proposed by Congress to the several legislatures,
and that the plan of New York for calling a new convention, will be rejected. Hitherto, no
State had acceded to it but Virginia, in which Henry and anti-federalism had got full possession
of their legislature. But the people are better disposed. My departure for America is likely
to be retarded, by the want of a Congress to give me permission. I must attend it from the
new government. I am anxious to know how much we ought to believe of the recovery of the King
of England. By putting little facts together, I see that he is not well. Mr. Rumsey (who came
in while I was writing the preceding page) tells me you have a long letter ready for me. I
shall be happy to receive it.

Paris, March 18, 1789.

Dear Sir,

Your favor of November the 29th, 1788, came to hand the last month. How it happened that mine
of August, 1787, was fourteen months on its way, is inconceivable. I do not recollect by what
conveyance I sent it. I had concluded, however, either that it had miscarried, or that you
had become indolent, as most of our countrymen are, in matters of correspondence.

The change in this country since you left it, is such as you can form no idea of. The frivolities
of conversation have given way entirely to politics. Men, women, and children talk nothing
else: and all, you know, talk a great deal. The press groans with daily productions, which,
in point of boldness, make an Englishman stare, who hitherto has thought himself the boldest
of men. A complete revolution in this government, has, within the space of two years (for it
began with the Notables of 1787), been effected merely by the force of public opinion, aided,
indeed, by the want of money, which the dissipations of the court had brought on. And this
revolution has not cost a single life, unless we charge to it a little riot lately in Bretagne,
which began about the price of bread, became afterwards political, and ended in the loss of
four or five lives. The assembly of the States General begins the 27th of April. The representation
of the people will be perfect. But they will be alloyed by an equal number of nobility and
clergy. The first great question they will have to decide, will be, whether they shall vote
by orders or persons. And I have hopes, that the majority of the Nobles are already disposed
to join the Tiers-Etat, in deciding that the vote shall be by persons. This is the opinion
a la mode at present, and mode has acted a wonderful part in the present instance. All the
handsome young women, for example, are for the Tiers-Etat and this is an army more powerful
in France, than the two hundred thousand men of the King. Add to this, that the court itself
is for the Tiers-Etat, as the only agent which can relieve their wants: not by giving money
themselves (they are squeezed to the last drop), but by pressing it from the non-contributing
orders. The King stands engaged to pretend no more to the power of laying, continuing, or appropriating
taxes; to call the States General periodically; to submit lettres de cachet to legal restrictions;
to consent to freedom of the press; and that all this shall be fixed by a fundamental constitution,
which shall bind his successors. He has not offered a participation in the legislature, but
it will surely be insisted on. The public mind is so ripened on all these subjects, that there
seems to be now but one opinion. The clergy, indeed, think separately, and the old men among
the Nobles: but their voice is suppressed by the general one of the nation. The writings published
on this occasion are, some of them, very valuable; because, unfettered by the prejudices under
which the English labor, they give a full scope to reason, and strike out truths, as yet unperceived
and unacknowledged on the other side the channel. An Englishman, dozing under a kind of half
reformation, is not excited to think by such gross absurdities as stare a Frenchman in the
face, wherever he looks, whether it be towards the throne or the altar. In fine, I believe
this nation will, in the course of the present year, have as full a portion of liberty dealt
out to them, as the nation can bear at present, considering how uninformed the mass of their
people is. This circumstance will prevent the immediate establishment of the trial by jury.
The palsied state of the executive in England is a fortunate circumstance for France, as it
will give her time to arrange her affairs internally. The consolidation and funding their debts,
will give government a credit which will enable them to do what they please. For the present
year the war will be confined to the two empires and Denmark, against Turkey and Sweden. It
is not yet evident, whether Prussia will be engaged. If the disturbances of Poland break out
into overt acts, it will be a power divided in itself, and so of no weight. Perhaps by the
next year England and France may be ready to take the field. It will depend on the former principally,
for the latter, though she may be then able, must wish still a little time to see her new arrangements
well under way. The English papers and English ministry say the King is well. He is better,
but not well: no malady requires a longer time to insure against its return than insanity.
Time alone can distinguish accidental insanity from habitual lunacy.

The operations which have taken place in America lately fill me with pleasure. In the first
place, they realize the confidence I had, that, whenever our affairs go obviously wrong, the
good sense of the people will interpose, and set them to rights. The example of changing a
constitution, by assembling the wise men of the State, instead of assembling armies, will be
worth as much to the world as the former examples we had given them. The constitution, too,
which was the result of our deliberations, is unquestionably the wisest ever yet presented
to men, and some of the accommodations of interest which it has adopted are greatly pleasing
to me, who have before had occasions of seeing how difficult those interests were to accommodate.
A general concurrence of opinion seems to authorize us to say it has some defects. I am one
of those who think it a defect, that the important rights, not placed in security by the frame
of the constitution itself, were not explicitly secured by a supplementary declaration. There
are rights which it is useless to surrender to the government, and which governments have yet
always been fond to invade. These are the rights of thinking, and publishing our thoughts by
speaking or writing; the right of free commerce; the right of personal freedom. There are instruments
for administering the government so peculiarly trust-worthy, that we should never leave the
legislature at liberty to change them. The new constitution has secured these in the executive
and legislative departments; but not in the judiciary. It should have established trials by
the people themselves, that is to say, by jury. There are instruments so dangerous to the rights
of the nation, and which place them so totally at the mercy of their governors, that those
governors, whether legislative or executive, should be restrained from keeping such instruments
on foot, but in well defined cases. Such an instrument is a standing army. We are now allowed
to say, such a declaration of rights, as a supplement to the constitution, where that is silent,
is wanting, to secure us in these points. The general voice has legitimated this objection.
It has not, however, authorized me to consider as a real defect, what I thought, and still
think one, the perpetual re-eligibility of the President. But three States out of eleven having
declared against this, we must suppose we are wrong, according to the fundamental law of every
society, the lex majoris partis, to which we are bound to submit. And should the majority change
their opinion, and become sensible that this trait in their constitution is wrong, I would
wish it to remain uncorrected, as long as we can avail ourselves of the services of our great
leader, whose talents and whose weight of character, I consider as peculiarly necessary to
get the government so under way, as that it may afterwards be carried on by subordinate characters.

I must give you sincere thanks for the details of small news contained in your letter. You
know how previous that kind of information is to a person absent from his country, and how
difficult it is to be procured. I hope to receive soon permission to visit America this summer,
and to possess myself anew, by conversation with my countrymen, of their spirit and their ideas.
I know only the Americans of the year 1784. They tell me this is to be much a stranger to those
of 1789. This renewal of acquaintance is no indifferent matter to one, acting at such a distance,
as that instructions cannot be received hot and hot. One of my pleasures, too, will be that
of talking over the old and new with you.

Paris, March 24, 1789.

Sir,

I have been lately honored with your letter of September the 24th, 1788, accompanied by a diploma
for a Doctorate of Laws, which the University of Harvard has been pleased to confer on me.
Conscious how little I merit it, I am the more sensible of their goodness and indulgence to
a stranger, who has had no means ef serving or making himself known to them. I beg you to return
them my grateful thanks, and to assure them that this notice from so eminent a seat of science
is very precious to me.

The most remarkable publications we have had in France, for a year or two past, are the following.
Les Voyages d'Anacharsis, par Abbe Barthelemi, seven volumes, octavo. This is a very elegant
digest of whatever is known of the Greeks; useless, indeed, to him who has read the original
authors, but very proper for one who reads modern languages only. The works of the King of
Prussia. The Berlin edition is in sixteen volumes, octavo. It is said to have been gutted at
Berlin; and here it has been still more mangled. There are one or two other editions published
abroad, which pretend to have rectified the maltreatment both of Berlin and Paris. Some time
will be necessary to settle the public mind as to the best edition.

Montignot has given us the original Greek, and a French translation of the seventh book of
Ptolemy's great work, under the title of Etat des Etoiles fixes au second siecle, in quarto.
He has given the designation of the same stars by Flamsteed and Bayer, and their position in
the year 1786. A very remarkable work is the Mechanique Analytique of La Grange, in quarto.
He is allowed to be the greatest mathematician now living, and his personal worth is equal
to his science. The object of his work is to reduce all the principles of mechanics to the
single one of the equilibrium, and to give a simple formula applicable to them all. The subject
is treated in the algebraic method, without diagrams to assist the conception. My present occupations
not permitting me to read any thing which requires a long and undisturbed attention, I am not
able to give you the character of this work from my own examination. It has been received with
great approbation in Europe. In Italy, the works of Spallanzani on Digestion and Generation
are valuable. Though, perhaps, too minute, and therefore tedious, he has developed some useful
truths, and his book is well worth attention; it is in four volumes, octavo. Clavigero, an
Italian also, who has resided thirty-six years in Mexico, has given us a History of that country,
which certainly merits more respect than any other work on the same subject. He corrects many
errors of Dr. Robertson; and though sound philosophy will disapprove many of his ideas, we
must still consider it as an useful work, and assuredly the best we possess on the same subject.
It is in four thin volumes, small quarto. De la Lande has not yet published a fifth volume.

The chemical dispute about the conversion and reconversion of air and water, continues still
undecided. Arguments and authorities are so balanced, that we may still safely believe, as
our fathers did before us, that these principles are distinct. A schism of another kind has
taken place among the chemists. A particular set of them here have undertaken to remodel all
the terms of the science, and to give to every substance a new name, the composition, and especially
the termination of which, shall define the relation in which it stands to other substances
of the same family. But the science seems too much in its infancy as yet, for this reformation;
because, in fact, the reformation of this year must be reformed again the next year, and so
on, changing the names of substances as often as new experiments develope properties in them
undiscovered before. The new nomenclature has, accordingly, been already proved to need numerous
and important reformations. Probably it will not prevail. It is espoused by the minority only
here, and by very few, indeed, of the foreign chemists. It is particularly rejected in England.

In the arts, I think two of our countrymen have presented the most important inventions. Mr.
Paine, the author of 'Common Sense,' has invented an iron bridge, which promises to be cheaper
by a great deal than stone, and to admit of a much greater arch. He supposes it may be ventured
for an arch of five hundred feet. He has obtained a patent for it in England, and is now executing
the first experiment with an arch of between ninety and one hundred feet. Mr. Rumsey has also
obtained a patent for his navigation by the force of steam in England, and is soliciting a
similar one here. His principal merit is in the improvement of the boiler, and instead of the
complicated machinery of oars and paddles, proposed by others, the substitution of so simple
a thing as the reaction of a stream of water on his vessel. He is building a sea-vessel at
this time in England, and she will be ready for an experiment in May. He has suggested a great
number of mechanical improvements in a variety of branches, and, upon the whole, is the most
original and the greatest mechanical genius I have ever seen. The return of La Peyrouse (whenever
that shall happen) will probably add to our knowledge in Geography, Botany, and Natural History.
What a field have we at our doors to signalize ourselves in! The Botany of America is far from
being exhausted, its Mineralogy is untouched, and its Natural History or Zoology totally mistaken
and misrepresented. As far as I have seen, there is not one single species of terrestrial birds
common to Europe and America, and I question if there be a single species of quadrupeds. (Domestic
animals are to be excepted.) It is for such institutions as that over which you preside so
worthily, Sir, to do justice to our country, its productions, and its genius. It is the work
to which the young men, whom you are forming, should lay their hands. We have spent the prime
of our lives in procuring them the precious blessing of liberty. Let them spend theirs in showing
that it is the great parent of science and of virtue; and that a nation will be great in both,
always in proportion as it is free.

Paris, April 3, 1789.

Sir,

I could not name to you the day of my departure from Paris, because I do not know it. I have
not yet received my congé, though I hope to receive it soon, and to leave this some time in
May, so that I may be back before the winter.

Impost is a duty paid on any imported article, in the moment of its importation, and of course,
it is collected in the sea-ports only. Excise is a duty on any article, whether imported or
raised at home, and paid in the hands of the consumer or retailer; consequently, it is collected
through the whole country. These are the true definitions of these words as used in England,
and in the greater part of the United States. But in Massachusetts, they have perverted the
word excise to mean a tax on all liquors, whether paid in the moment of importation or at a
later moment, and on nothing else. So that in reading the debates of the Massachusetts convention,
you must give this last meaning to the word excise.

Rotation is the change of officers required by the laws at certain epochs, and in a certain
order: thus, in Virginia, our justices of the peace are made sheriffs one after the other,
each remaining in office two years, and then yielding it to his next brother in order of seniority.
This is the just and classical meaning of the word. But in America we have extended it (for
want of a proper word) to all cases of officers who must be necessarily changed at a fixed
epoch, though the successor be not pointed out in any particular order, but comes in by free
election. By the term rotation in office, then, we mean an obligation on the holder of that
office to go out at a certain period. In our first Confederation, the principle of rotation
was established in the office of President of Congress, who could serve but one year in three,
and in that of a member of Congress, who could serve but three years in six.

I believe all the countries in Europe determine their standard of money, in gold as well as
silver. Thus, the laws of England direct that a pound Troy of gold, of twenty-two carats fine,
shall be cut into forty-four and a half guineas, each of which shall be worth twenty-one and
a half shillings, that is, into 956 3/4 shillings. This establishes the shilling at 5.518 grains
of pure gold. They direct that a pound of silver, consisting of 11 1/10 ounces of pure silver,
and 9/10 of an ounce alloy, shall be cut into sixty-two shillings. This establishes the shilling
at 85.93 grains of pure silver, and, consequently, the proportion of gold to silver as 85.93
to 5.518, or as 15.57 to 1. If this be the true proportion between the value of gold and silver
at the general market of Europe, then the value of the shilling, depending on two standards,
is the same, whether a payment be made in gold or in silver. But if the proportion at the general
market of Europe be as fifteen to one, then the Englishman who owes a pound weight of gold
at Amsterdam, if he sends the pound of gold to pay it, sends 1043.72 shillings; if he sends
fifteen pounds of silver, he sends only 1030.5 shillings; if he pays half in gold and half
in silver, he pays only 1037.11 shillings. And this medium between the two standards of gold
and silver, we must consider as furnishing the true medium value of the shilling. If the parliament
should now order the pound of gold (of one-twelfth alloy as before) to be cut into a thousand
shillings instead of nine hundred and fifty-six and three fourths, leaving the silver as it
is, the medium or true value of the shilling would suffer a change of half the difference;
and in the case before stated, to pay a debt of a pound weight of gold, at Amsterdam, if he
sent the pound weight of gold, he would send 1090.9 shillings; if he sent fifteen pounds of
silver, he would send 1030.5 shillings; if half in gold and half in silver, he would send 1060.7
shillings; which shows, that this parliamentary operation would reduce the value of the shilling
in the proportion of 1060.7 to 1037.11.

Now this is exactly the effect of the late change in the quantity of gold contained in your
louis. Your marc d'argent fin is cut into 53.45 livres (fifty-three livres and nine sous),
the marc de l'or fin was cut, heretofore, by law, into 784.6 livres (seven hundred and eighty-four
livres and twelve sous); gold was to silver, then, as 14.63 to 1. And if this was different
from the proportion at the markets of Europe, the true value of your livre stood half way between
the two standards. By the ordinance of October the 30th, 1785, the marc of pure gold has been
cut into 828.6 livres. If your standard had been in gold alone, this would have reduced the
value of the livre, in the proportion of 828.6 to 784.6. But as you had a standard of silver
as well as gold, the true standard is the medium between the two; consequently, the value of
the livre is reduced only one half the difference, that is, as 806.6 to 784.6, which is very
nearly three per cent. Commerce, however, has made a difference of four per cent., the average
value of the pound sterling, formerly twenty-four livres, being now twenty-five livres. Perhaps
some other circumstance has occasioned an addition of one per cent, to the change of your standard.

I fear I have tired you by these details. I did not mean to be so lengthy when I began. I beg
you to consider them as an appeal to your judgment, which I value, and from which I will expect
a correction, if they are wrong.

Paris, May 6,1789.

My Dear Friend,

As it becomes more and more possible that the Noblesse will go wrong, I become uneasy for you.
Your principles are decidedly with the Tiers-Etat, and your instructions against them. A complaisance
to the latter on some occasions, and an adherence to the former on others, may give an appearance
of trimming between the two parties, which may lose you both. You will, in the end, go over
wholly to the Tiers-Etat, because it will be impossible for you to live in a constant sacrifice
of your own sentiments to the prejudices of the Noblesse. But you would be received by the
Tiers-Etat, at any future day, coldly, and without confidence. This appears to me the moment
to take at once that honest and manly stand with them, which your own principles dictate. This
will win their hearts for ever, be approved by the world, which marks and honors you as the
man of the people, and will be an eternal consolation to yourself. The Noblesse, and especially
the Noblesse of Auvergne, will always prefer men who will do their dirty work for them. You
are not made for that. They will therefore soon drop you, and the people, in that case, will
perhaps not take you up. Suppose a scission should take place. The Priests and Nobles will
secede, the nation will remain in place, and, with the King, will do its own business. If violence
should be attempted, where will you be? You cannot then take side with the people in opposition
to your own vote, that very vote which will have helped to produce the scission. Still less
can you array yourself against the people. That is impossible. Your instructions are indeed
a difficulty. But to state this at its worst, it is only a single difficulty, which a single
effort surmounts. Your instructions can never embarrass you a second time, whereas an acquiescence
under them will re-produce greater difficulties every day, and without end. Besides, a thousand
circumstances offer as many justifications of your departure from your instructions. Will it
be impossible to persuade all parties, that (as for good legislation two Houses are necessary)
the placing the privileged classes together in one House, and the unprivileged in another,
would be better for both than a scission? I own I think it would. People can never agree without
some sacrifices; and it appears but a moderate sacrifice in each party, to meet on this middle
ground. The attempt to bring this about might satisfy your instructions, and a failure in it
would justify your siding with the people, even to those who think instructions are laws of
conduct. Forgive me, my dear friend, if my anxiety for you makes me talk of things I know nothing
about. You must not consider this as advice. I know you and myself too well to presume to offer
advice. Receive it merely as the expression of my uneasiness, and the effusion of that sincere
friendship, with which I am, my dear Sir, yours affectionately,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXCVII.--TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL, May 8, 1789

TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL.

Paris, May 8, 1789.

Dear Sir,

Your favor of January the 26th, to March the 27th, is duly received, and I thank you for the
interesting papers it contained. The answer of Don Ulloa, however, on the subject of the canal
through the American isthmus, was not among them, though mentioned to be so. If you have omitted
it through accident, I shall thank you for it at some future occasion, as I wish much to understand
that subject thoroughly. Our American information comes down to the 16th of March. There had
not yet been members enough assembled of the new Congress, to open the tickets. They expected
to do it in a day or two. In the mean time, it was said from all the States, that their vote
had been unanimous for General Washington, and a good majority in favor of Mr. Adams, who is
certainly, therefore, Vice-President. The new government would be supported by very cordial
and very general dispositions in its favor from the people. I have not yet seen a list of the
new Congress. This delay in the meeting of the new government has delayed the determination
on my petition for leave of absence. However, I expect to receive it every day, and am in readiness
to sail the instant I receive it, so that this is probably the last letter I shall write you
hence, till my return. While there, I shall avail government of the useful information I have
received from you, and shall not fail to profit of any good occasion which may occur, to show
the difference between your real situation, and what it ought to be. I consider Paris and Madrid
as the two only points, at which Europe and America should touch closely, and that a connection
at these points should be fostered.

We have had in this city a very considerable riot, in which about one hundred people have been
probably killed. It was the most unprovoked, and is therefore, justly, the most unpitied catastrophe
of that kind I ever knew. Nor did the wretches know what they wanted, except to do mischief.
It seems to have had no particular connection with the great national question now in agitation.
The want of bread is very seriously dreaded through the whole kingdom. Between twenty and thirty
ship-loads of wheat and flour has already arrived from the United States, and there will be
about the same quantity of rice sent from Charleston to this country directly, of which about
half has arrived. I presume that, between wheat and rice, one hundred ship-loads may be counted
on in the whole from us. Paris consumes about a ship-load a day, (say two hundred and fifty
tons.) The total supply of the West Indies, for this year, rests with us, and there is almost
a famine in Canada and Nova Scotia. The States General were opened the day before yesterday.
Viewing it as an opera, it was imposing; as a scene of business, the King's speech was exactly
what it should have been, and very well delivered; not a word of the Chancellor's was heard
by any body, so that, as yet, I have never heard a single guess at what it was about. Mr. Necker's
was as good as such a number of details would permit it to be. The picture of their resources
was consoling, and generally plausible. I could have wished him to have dwelt more on those
great constitutional reformations, which his Rapport au Roy had prepared us to expect. But
they observe, that these points are proper for the speech of the Chancellor. We are in hopes,
therefore, they were in that speech, which, like the Revelations of St. John, were no revelations
at all. The Noblesse, on coming together, show that they are not as much reformed in their
principles as we had hoped they would be. In fact, there is real danger of their totally refusing
to vote by persons. Some found hopes on the lower clergy, which constitute four-fifths of the
deputies of that order. If they do not turn the balance in favor of the Tiers-Etat, there is
real danger of a scission. But I shall not consider even that event as rendering things desperate.
If the King will do business with the Tiers-Etat, which constitutes the nation, it may be well
done without Priests or Nobles. From the best information I can obtain, the King of England's
madness has terminated in an imbecility, which may very possibly be of long continuance. He
is going with his Queen to Germany. England chained to rest, the other parts of Europe may
recover or retain tranquillity.

Paris, May 9, 1789.

Sir,

Since my letter of March the 1st, by the way of Havre, and those of March the 12th and 15th,
by the way of London, no opportunity of writing has occurred, till the present to London.

There are no symptoms of accommodation between the Turks and two empires, nor between Russia
and Sweden. The Emperor was, on the 16th of the last month, expected to die, certainly; he
was, however, a little better when the last news came away, so that hopes were entertained
of him; but it is agreed that he cannot get the better of his complaints ultimately, so that
his life is not at all counted on. The Danes profess, as yet, to do no more against Sweden
than furnish their stipulated aid. The agitation of Poland is still violent, though somewhat
moderated by the late change in the demeanor of the King of Prussia. He is much less thrasonic
than he was. This is imputed to the turn which the English politics may be rationally expected
to take. It is very difficult to get at the true state of the British King j but from the best
information we can get, his madness has gone off, but he is left in a state of imbecility and
melancholy. They are going to carry him to Hanover, to see whether such a journey may relieve
him. The Queen accompanies him. If England. should, by this accident, be reduced to inactivity,
the southern countries of Europe may escape the present war. Upon the whole, the prospect for
the present year, if no unforeseen accident happens, is certain peace for the powers not already
engaged, a probability that Denmark will not become a principal, and a mere possibility that
Sweden and Russia may be accommodated. The interior disputes of Sweden are so exactly detailed
in the Leyden gazette, that I have nothing to add on that subject.

The revolution of this country has advanced thus far without encountering any thing which deserves
to be called a difficulty. There have been riots in a few instances, in three or four different
places, in which there may have been a dozen or twenty lives lost. The exact truth is not be
got at. A few days ago, a much more serious riot took place in this city, in which it became
necessary for the troops to engage in regular action with the mob, and probably about one hundred
of the latter were killed. Accounts vary from twenty to two hundred. They were the most abandoned
banditti of Paris, and never was a riot more unprovoked and unpitied. They began, under a pretence
that a paper manufacturer had proposed in an assembly, to reduce their wages to fifteen sous
a day. They rifled his house, destroyed every thing in his magazines and shops, and were only
stopped in their career of mischief, by the carnage above mentioned. Neither this nor any other
of the riots, have had a professed connection with the great national reformation going on.
They are such as have happened every year since I have been here, and as will continue to be
produced by common incidents. The States General were opened on the 4th instant, by a speech
from the throne, one by the Garde des Sceaux, and one from Mr. Necker. I hope they will be
printed in time to send you herewith: lest they should not, I will observe, that that of Mr,
Necker stated the real and ordinary deficit to be fifty-six millions, and that he showed that
this could be made up without a new tax, by economies and bonifications which he specified.
Several articles of the latter are liable to the objection, that they are proposed on branches
of the revenue, of which the nation has demanded a suppression. He tripped too lightly over
the great articles of constitutional reformation, these being not as clearly announced in this
discourse as they were in his Rapport au Roy, which I sent you some time ago. On the whole,
his discourse has not satisfied the patriotic party. It is now, for the first time, that their
revolution is likely to receive a serious check, and begins to wear a fearful appearance. The
progress of light and liberality in the order of the Noblesse has equalled expectation in Paris
only, and its vicinities. The great mass of deputies of that order, which come from the country,
show that the habits of tyranny over the people, are deeply rooted in them. They will consent,
indeed, to equal taxation; but five-sixths of that chamber are thought to be, decidedly, for
voting by orders; so that, had this great preliminary question rested on this body, which formed
heretofore the sole hope, that hope would have been completely disappointed. Some aid, however,
comes in from a quarter whence none was expected. It was imagined the ecclesiastical elections
would have been generally in favor of the higher clergy; on the contrary, the lower clergy
have obtained five-sixths of these deputations. These are the sons of peasants, who have done
all the drudgery of the service, for ten, twenty, and thirty guineas a year, and whose oppressions
and penury, contrasted with the pride and luxury of the higher clergy, have rendered them perfectly
disposed to humble the latter. They have done it, in many instances, with a boldness they were
thought insusceptible of. Great hopes have been formed, that these would concur with the Tiers-Etat,
in voting by persons. In fact, about half of them seem as yet so disposed; but the bishops
are intriguing, and drawing them over with the address which has ever marked ecclesiastical
intrigue. The deputies of the Tiers-Etat seem, almost to a man, inflexibly determined against
the vote by orders. This is the state of parties, as well as can be judged from conversation
only, during the fortnight they have been now together. But as no business has been yet begun,
no votes as yet taken, this calculation cannot be considered as sure. A middle proposition
is talked of, to form the two privileged orders into one chamber. It is thought more possible
to bring them into it, than the Tiers-Etat. Another proposition is, to distinguish questions,
referring those of certain descriptions to a vote by persons, others to a vote by orders. This
seems to admit of endless altercation, and the Tiers-Etat manifest no respect for that, or
any other modification whatever. Were this single question accommodated, I am of opinion, there
would not occur the least difficulty in the great and essential points of constitutional reformation.
But on this preliminary question the parties are so irreconcilable, that it is impossible to
foresee what issue it will have. The Tiers-Etat, as constituting the nation, may propose to
do the business of the nation, either with or without the minorities in the Houses of Clergy
and Nobles, which side with them. In that case, if the King should agree to it, the majorities
in those two Houses would secede, and might resist the tax-gatherers. This would bring on a
civil war. On the other hand, the privileged orders, offering to submit to equal taxation,
may propose to the King to continue the government in its former train, resuming to himself
the power of taxation. Here, the tax-gatherers might be resisted by the people. In fine, it
is but too possible, that between parties so animated, the King may incline the balance as
he pleases. Happy that he is an honest, unambitious man, who desires neither money nor power
for himself; and that his most operative minister, though he has appeared to trim a little,
is still, in the main, a friend to public liberty.

I mentioned to you in a former letter, the construction which our bankers at Amsterdam had
put on the resolution of Congress, appropriating the last Dutch loan, by which the money for
our captives would not be furnished till the end of the year 1790. Orders from the board of
treasury have now settled this question. The interest of the next month is to be first paid,
and after that, the money for the captives and foreign officers is to be furnished, before
any other payment of interest. This insures it when the next February interest becomes payable.
My representations to them, on account of the contracts I had entered into for making the medals,
have produced from them the money for that object, which is lodged in the hands of Mr. Grand.

Mr. Necker, in his discourse, proposes among his bonifications of revenue, the suppression
of our two free ports of Bayonne and L'Orient, which, he says, occasion a loss of six hundred
thousand livres annually, to the crown, by contraband. (The speech being not yet printed, I
state this only as it struck my ear when he delivered it. If I have mistaken it, I beg you
to receive this as my apology, and to consider what follows, as written on that idea only.)
I have never been able to see that these free ports were worth one copper to us. To Bayonne
our trade never went, and it is leaving L'Orient. Besides, the right of entrepot is a perfect
substitute for the right of free port. The latter is a little less troublesome only, to the
merchants and captains. I should think, therefore, that a thing so useless to us and prejudicial
to them might be relinquished by us, on the common principles of friendship. I know the merchants
of these ports will make a clamor, because the franchise covers their contraband with all the
world. Has Monsieur de Moustier said any thing to you on this subject? It has never been mentioned
to me. If not mentioned in either way, it is rather an indecent proceeding, considering that
this right of free port is founded in treaty. I shall ask of M. de Montmorin, on the first
occasion, whether he has communicated this to you through his minister; and if he has not,
I will endeavor to notice the infraction to him in such manner, as neither to reclaim nor abandon
the right of free port, but leave our government free to do either.

The gazettes of France and Leyden, as usual, will accompany this. I am in hourly expectation
of receiving from you my leave of absence, and keep my affairs so arranged, that I can leave
Paris within eight days after receiving the permission.

Paris, May 10, 1780,

Sir,

I am now to acknowledge, the honor of your two letters of November the 27th and February the
13th, both of which have come to hand since my last to you of December the 4th and 5th. The
details you are so good as to give me on the subject of the navigation of the waters of the
Potomac and Ohio, are very pleasing to me, as I consider the union of those two rivers, as
among the strongest links of connection between the eastern and western sides of our confederacy.
It will, moreover, add to the commerce of Virginia, in particular, all the upper parts of the
Ohio and its waters. Another vast object, and of much less difficulty, is to add also, all
the country on the lakes and their waters. This would enlarge our field immensely, and would
certainly be effected by an union of the upper waters of the Ohio and lake Erie. The Big Beaver
and Cayahoga offer the most direct line, and according to information I received from General
Hand, and which I had the honor of writing you in the year 1783, the streams in that neighborhood
head in lagoons, and the country is flat. With respect to the doubts which you say are entertained
by some, whether the upper waters of Potomac can be rendered capable of navigation, on account
of the falls and rugged banks, they are answered, by observing, that it is reduced to a maxim,
that whenever there is water enough to float a batteau, there may be navigation for a batteau.
Canals and locks may be necessary, and they are expensive; but I hardly know what expense would
be too great for the object in question. Probably, negotiation with the Indians, perhaps even
settlement, must precede the execution of the Cayahoga canal. The States of Maryland and Virginia
should make a common object of it. The navigation, again, between Elizabeth River and the Sound
is of vast importance, and in my opinion, it is much better that these should be done at public
than private expense.

Though we have not heard of the actual opening of the new Congress, and consequently, have
not official information of your election as President of the United States, yet, as there
never could be a doubt entertained of it, permit me to express here my felicitations, not to
yourself, but to my country. Nobody who has tried both public and private life, can doubt but
that you were much happier on the banks of the Potomac than you will be at New York. But there
was nobody so well qualified as yourself, to put our new machine into a regular course of action;
nobody, the authority of whose name could have so effectually crushed opposition at home, and
produced respect abroad. I am sensible of the immensity of the sacrifice on your part. Your
measure of fame was full to the brim; and therefore, you have nothing to gain. But there are
cases wherein it is a duty to risk all against nothing, and I believe this was exactly the
case. We may presume, too, according to every rule of probability, that after doing a great
deal of good, you will be found to have lost nothing but private repose.

In a letter to Mr. Jay, of the 19th of November, I asked a leave of absence to carry my children
back to their own country, and to settle various matters of a private nature, which were left
unsettled, because I had no idea of being absent so long. I expected that letter would have
been received in time to be decided on by the government then existing. I know now that it
would arrive when there was no Congress, and consequently, that if must have awaited your arrival
at New York. I hope you found the request not an unreasonable one. I am excessively anxious
to receive the permission without delay, that I may be able to get back before the winter sets
in. Nothing can be so dreadful to me, as to be shivering at sea for two or three months, in
a winter passage. Besides, there has never been a moment at which the presence of a minister
here could be so well dispensed with, from certainty of no war this summer, and that the government
will be so totally absorbed in domestic arrangements, as to attend to nothing exterior. Mr.
Jay will, of course, communicate to you some ciphered letters lately written, and one of this
date. My public letter to him contains all the interesting public details. I enclose with the
present, some extracts of a letter from Mr. Paine, which he desired me to communicate: your
knowledge of the writer will justify my giving you the trouble of these communications, which
their interesting nature and his respectability will jointly recommend to notice. I am in great
pain for the Marquis de la Fayette. His principles, you know, are clearly with the people;
but having been elected for the Noblesse of Auvergne, they have laid him under express instructions
to vote for the decision by orders and not persons. This would ruin him with the Tiers-Etat,
and it is not possible he could continue long to give satisfaction to the Noblesse. I have
not hesitated to press on him to burn his instructions, and follow his conscience as the only
sure clue, which will eternally guide a man clear of all doubts and inconsistencies. If he
cannot effect a conciliatory plan, he will surely take his stand manfully at once with the
Tiers-Etat. He will in that case be what he pleases with them, and I am in hopes that base
is now too solid to render it dangerous to be mounted on it.

     [Extract of the letter from Thomas Paine, referred to in the
     preceding, to General Washington.]

'London, March the 12th, 1789. I do not think it is worth while for Congress to appoint any
minister at this court. The greater distance Congress observes on this point, the better. It
will be all money thrown away to go to any expense about it, at least during the present reign.
I know the nation well, and the line of acquaintance I am in enables me to judge better on
this matter than any other American can judge, especially at a distance. I believe I am not
so much in the good graces of the Marquis of Lansdowne as I used to be. I do not answer his
purpose. He was always talking of a sort of re-connection of England and America, and my coldness
and reserve on this subject checked communication. I believe he would be a good minister for
England, with respect to a better agreement with France.'

(Same letter continued) 'April 10. The acts for regulating the trade with America are to be
continued as last year. A paper from the Privy Council respecting the American fly is before
parliament. I had some conversation with Sir Joseph Banks upon this subject, as he was the
person whom the Privy Council referred to. I told him that the Hessian fly attacked only the
green plant, and did not exist in the dry grain. He said, that with respect to the Hessian
fly they had no apprehension, but it was the weevil they alluded to. I told him the weevil
had always, more or less, been in the wheat countries of America, and that if the prohibition
was on that account, it was as necessary fifty or sixty years ago as now; that I believed it
was only a political manuvre of the ministry to please the landed interest, as a balance for
prohibiting the exportation of wool, to please the manufacturing interest. He did not reply,
and as we are on very sociable terms, I went farther, by saying, the English ought not to complain
of the non-payment of debts from America, while they prohibit the means of payment. I suggest
to you a thought on this subject.

The debts due before the war ought to be distinguished from the debts contracted since, and
all and every mode of payment and remittance under which they might have been discharged at
the time they were contracted, ought to accompany those debts so long as any of them shall
continue unpaid, because the circumstances of payment became united with the debt, and cannot
be separated by subsequent acts of one side only. If this was taken up in America, and insisted
on as a right coeval with, and inseparable from those debts, it would force some of the restrictions
here to give way. While writing this, I am informed that the minister has had a conference
with some of the American creditors, and proposed to them to assume the debts, and give them
ten shillings in the pound. The conjecture is, that he means, when the new Congress is established,
to demand the payment. If you are writing to General Washington, it may not be amiss to mention
this, and if I hear further on this matter, I will inform you. But as, being a money matter,
it cannot come forward but through parliament; there will be notice given of the business.
This would be a proper time to show that the British acts since the peace militate against
the payment, by narrowing the means by which those debts might have been paid when they were
contracted, and which ought to be considered as constituent parts of the contract.'

LETTER CC.--TO JAMES MADISON, May 11,1789

TO JAMES MADISON.

Paris, May 11,1789.

Dear Sir,

My last to you was of the 15th of March. I am now in hourly expectation of receiving my leave
of absence. The delay of it a little longer will endanger the throwing my return into the winter,
the very idea of which is horror itself to me. I am in hopes this is the last letter I shall
have the pleasure of writing you before my departure.

The madness of the King of England has gone off, but left him in a state of imbecility and
melancholy. They talk of carrying him to Hanover. If they do, it will be a proof he does not
mend, and that they take that measure, to authorize them to establish a regency. But if he
grows better, they will perhaps keep him at home, to avoid the question, Who shall be regent?
As that country cannot be relied on in the present state of its executive, the King of Prussia
has become more moderate; he throws cold water on the fermentation he had excited in Poland.
The King of Sweden will act as nobody, not even himself, can foresee; because he acts from
the caprice of the moment, and because the discontents of his army and nobles may throw him
under internal difficulties, while struggling with external ones. Denmark will probably only
furnish its stipulated aid to Russia. France is fully occupied with internal arrangements.
So that, on the whole, the prospect of this summer is, that the war will continue between the
powers actually engaged in the close of the last campaign, and extend to no others; certainly
it will not extend, this year, to the southern States of Europe. The revolution of France has
gone on with the most unexampled success, hitherto. There have been some mobs, occasioned by
the want of bread, in different parts of the kingdom, in which there may have been some lives
lost; perhaps a dozen or twenty. These had no professed connection, generally, with the constitutional
revolution. A more serious riot happened lately in Paris, in which about one hundred of the
mob were killed. This execution has been universally approved, as they seemed to have no view
but mischief and plunder. But the meeting of the States General presents serious difficulties,
which it had been hoped the progress of reason would have enabled them to get over. The nobility
of and about Paris have come over, as was expected, to the side of the people, in the great
question of voting by persons or orders. This had induced a presumption, that those of the
country were making the same progress, and these form the great mass of the deputies of that
order. But they are found to be where they were centuries ago, as to their disposition to keep
distinct from the people, and even to tyrannize over them. They agree, indeed, to abandon their
pecuniary privileges. The clergy seem at present much divided. Five-sixths of that representation
consists of the lower clergy, who, being the sons of the peasantry, are very well with the
Tiers-Etat. But the Bishops are intriguing, and drawing them over daily. The Tiers-Etat is
so firm to vote by persons or to go home, that it is impossible to conjecture what will be
the result. This is the state of parties, as well as we can conjecture from the conversation
of the members; for as yet no vote has been given, which will enable us to calculate on certain
ground.

Having formerly written to you on the subject of our finances, I enclose you now an abstract
of a paper on that subject, which Gouverneur Morris communicated to me. You will be a better
judge of its merit than I am. It seems to me worthy good attention.

I have a box of books packed for you, which I shall carry to Havre, and send by any ship bound
to New York or Philadelphia. I have been so inexact, as to take no list of them before nailing
up the box. Be so good as to do this, and I will take with me my bookseller's account, which
will enable us to make a statement of them. They are chiefly Encyclopédies, from the 23rd to
the 30th livraison. Paul Jones has desired me to send to yourself and Colonel Carrington each,
his bust. They are packed together in the same box. There are three other boxes, with two in
each, for other gentlemen. I shall send them all together, and take the liberty of addressing
them to you. I rejoice extremely to hear you are elected, in spite of all cabals. I fear your
post will not permit me to see you but in New York, and consequently for a short time only.
I shall much regret this.

I am, with sentiments of sincere attachment and respect, Dear Sir, your friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CCI.--TO MONSIEUR DE PONTIERE, May 17, 1789

TO MONSIEUR DE PONTIERE.

Paris, May 17, 1789.

Sir,

I am honored with your letter of the 6th instant, and am sincerely sorry that you should experience
inconveniences for the want of the arrearages due to you from the United States. I have never
ceased to take every measure, which could promise to procure to the foreign officers the payment
of these arrears. At present the matter stands thus. Congress have agreed to borrow a sum of
money in Holland, to enable them to pay the individual demands in Europe. They have given orders
that these arrearages shall be paid out of this money, when borrowed, and certain bankers in
Amsterdam are charged to borrow the money. I am myself of opinion, they will certainly procure
the money in the course of the present year; but it is not for me to affirm this, nor to make
any engagement. The moment the money is ready, it shall be made known to Colonel Gourion, who,
at the desire of many of the officers, has undertaken to communicate with me on the subject,
and to inform them, from time to time, of the progress of this business. He will readily answer
your letters on this subject. I depart in a few days for America, but shall leave such instructions
here, as that this matter will suffer no delay on that account.

I have the honor to be. Sir, your most obedient, humble servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CCII.--TO MR. VAUGHAN, May 17, 1789

TO MR. VAUGHAN.

Paris, May 17, 1789.

Dear Sir,

I am to acknowledge, all together, the receipt of your favors of March the 17th, 26th, and
May the 7th, and to return you abundant thanks for your attention to the article of dry rice,
and the parcel of seeds you sent me. This is interesting, because, even should it not take
place of the wet rice, in South Carolina, it will enable us to cultivate this grain in Virginia,
where we have not lands disposed for the wet rice. The collection of the works of Monsieur
de Poivre has not, as I believe, been ever published. It could hardly have escaped my knowledge,
if they had been ever announced. The French translation of the book on trade has not yet come
to my hands. Whenever I receive the copies, they shall be distributed, and principally among
the members of the Etats Generaux. I doubt whether, at this session, they will take up the
subject of commerce. Whenever they do, they will find better principles no where than in that
book. I spoke with Mr. Stewart yesterday on the subject of the distribution, and if I should
be gone before the books come to hand, he will execute the commission. Your nation is very
far from the liberality that treatise inculcates. The proposed regulation on the subject of
our wheat is one proof. The prohibition of it in England would, of itself, be of no great moment,
because I do not know that it is much sent there. But it is the publishing a libel on our wheat,
sanctioned with the name of parliament, and which can have no object but to do us injury, by
spreading a groundless alarm in those countries of Europe where our wheat is constantly and
kindly received. It is a mere assassination. If the insect they pretend to fear, be the Hessian
fly, it never existed in the grain. If it be the weevil, our grain always had that; and the
experience of a century has proved, that either the climate of England is not warm enough to
hatch the egg and continue the race, or that some other unknown cause prevents any evil from
it. How different from this spirit, my dear Sir, has been your readiness to help us to the
dry rice, to communicate to us the bread tree, &tc. Will any of our climates admit the cultivation
of the latter? I am too little acquainted with it to judge. I learn that your newspapers speak
of the death of Ledyard, at Grand Cairo. I am anxious to know whether there be foundation for
this. I have not yet had time to try the execution of the wood hygrometer proposed by Dr. Franklin.
Though I have most of the articles ready made, I doubt now whether I shall be able to do it
before my departure for America, the permission for which I expect every hour; and I shall
go off the instant I receive it. While there, I shall have the pleasure of seeing your father
and friends. I expect to return in the fall.

Paris, May 19,1789.

Dear Sir,

Your favors of February the 16th to April the 13th, and of May the 3rd and 10th, are received;
and the two last are sent to Mr. Leroy, who will communicate them to the Academy.

You know that the States General have met, and probably have seen the speeches at the opening
of them. The three orders sit in distinct chambers. The great question, whether they shall
vote by orders or persons can never be surmounted amicably. It has not yet been proposed in
form; but the votes which have been taken on the outworks of that question show, that the Tiers-Etat
are unanimous, a good majority of the Clergy (consisting of the Curés) disposed to side with
the Tiers-Etat, and in the chamber of the Noblesse there are only fifty-four in that sentiment,
against one hundred and ninety, who are for voting by orders. Committees to find means of conciliation
are appointed by each chamber; but conciliation is impossible. Some think the Nobles could
be induced to unite themselves with the higher Clergy into one House, the lower Clergy and
Tiers-Etat forming another. But the Tiers-Etat are immovable. They are not only firm, but a
little disdainful. The question is, what will ensue? One idea is to separate, in order to consult
again their constituents, and to take new instructions. This would be doing nothing, for the
same instructions would be repeated; and what, in the mean time, is to become of a government
absolutely without money, and which cannot be kept in motion with less than a million of livres
a day? The more probable expectation is as follows. As soon as it shall become evident, that
no amicable determination of the manner of voting can take place, the Tiers-Etat will send
an invitation to the two other orders, to come and take their places in the common chamber.
A majority of the Clergy will go, and the minority of the Noblesse. The chamber thus composed,
will declare that the States General are constituted, will notify it to the King, and that
they are ready to proceed to business. If the King refuses to do business with them, and adheres
to the Nobles, the common chamber will declare all taxes at an end, will form a declaration
of rights, and do such other acts as the circumstances will permit, and go home. The tax-gatherers
will then be resisted, and it may well be doubted whether the soldiery and their officers will
not divide, as the Tiers-Etat and Nobles. But it is more likely that the King will agree to
do business with the States General, so constituted, professing that the necessities of the
moment force this, and that he means to negotiate (as they go along) a reconciliation between
the seceding members, and those which remain. If the matter takes this turn, there may be small
troubles and ebullitions excited by the seceding Noblesse and higher Clergy; but no serious
difficulty can arise. M. de Lamoignon, the Garde des Sceaux of the last year, has shot himself.
The Emperor's complaint is pulmonary, and incurable. The Grand Seignior is dead; his successor,
young and warlike. I congratulate you sincerely on the success of your bridge. I was sure of
it before from theory: yet one likes to be assured from practice also. I am anxious to see
how Mr. Rumsey's experiment succeeds.

May the 21st. I have this moment received a letter from Ledyard, dated Cairo, November the
15th. He therein says, 'I am doing up my baggage, and most curious baggage it is, and I leave
Cairo in two or three days. I travel from hence southwest, about three hundred leagues, to
a black King: there my present conductors leave me to my fate. Beyond, I suppose, I go alone.
I expect to hit the continent across, between the parallels of twelve and twenty degrees north
latitude. I shall, if possible, write you from the kingdom of this black gentleman.' This seems
to contradict the story of his having died at Cairo, in January, as he was then, probably,
in the interior parts of Africa. If Sir Joseph Banks has no news from him later than the letter
of September, it may do him pleasure, if you will communicate the above. If he or any other
person knows whether there is any foundation for the story of his death, I will thank you to
inform me of it.

Paris, June 3, 1789.

Sir,

After you quitted us yesterday evening, we continued our conversation (Monsieur de la Fayette,
Mr. Short, and myself) on the subject of the difficulties which environ you. The desirable
object being to secure the good which the King has offered, and to avoid the ill which seems
to threaten, an idea was suggested, which appearing to make an impression on Monsieur de la
Fayette, I was encouraged to pursue it on my return to Paris, to put it into form, and now
to send it to you and him. It is this; that the King, in a seance royale, should come forward
with a Charter of Rights in his hand, to be signed by himself and by every member of the three
orders. This charter to contain the five great points which the Resultat of December offered
on the part of the King; the abolition of pecuniary privileges offered by the privileged orders,
and the adoption of the national debt, and a grant of the sum of money asked from the nation.
This last will be a cheap price for the preceding articles; and let the same act declare your
immediate separation till the next anniversary meeting. You will carry back to your constituents
more good than ever was effected before without violence, and you will stop exactly at the
point where violence would otherwise begin. Time will be gained, the public mind will continue
to ripen and to be informed, a basis of support may be prepared with the people themselves,
and expedients occur for gaining still something further at your next meeting, and for stopping
again at the point of force. I have ventured to send yourself and Monsieur de la Fayette a
sketch of my ideas of what this act might contain, without endangering any dispute. But it
is offered merely as a canvass for you to work on, if it be fit to work on at all. I know too
little of the subject, and you know too much of it, to justify me in offering any thing but
a hint. I have done it, too, in a hurry: insomuch, that since committing it to writing, it
occurs to me that the fifth article may give alarm; that it is in a good degree included in
the fourth, and is, therefore, useless. But after all, what excuse can I make, Sir, for this
presumption. I have none but an unmeasurable love for your nation, and a painful anxiety lest
despotism, after an unaccepted offer to bind its own hands, should seize you again with tenfold
fury.

     [The annexed is the Charter accompanying the preceding letter.]

A Charter of Rights, solemnly established by the King and Nation.

1. The States General shall assemble, uncalled, on the first day of November, annually, and
shall remain together so long as they shall see cause. They shall regulate their own elections
and proceedings, and until they shall ordain otherwise, their elections shall be in the forms
observed in the present year, and shall be triennial.

2. The States General alone shall levy money on the nation, and shall appropriate it.

3. Laws shall be made by the States General only, with the consent of the King.

4. No person shall be restrained of his liberty, but by regular process from a court of justice,
authorized by a general law. (Except that a Noble may be imprisoned by order of a court of
justice, on the prayer of twelve of his nearest relations.) On complaint of an unlawful imprisonment,
to any judge whatever, he shall have the prisoner immediately brought before him, and shall
discharge him, if his imprisonment be unlawful. The officer, in whose custody the prisoner
is, shall obey the orders of the judge; and both judge and officer shall be responsible, civilly
and criminally, for a failure of duty herein.

5. The military shall be subordinate to the civil authority.

7. Printers shall be liable to legal prosecution for printing and publishing false facts, injurious
to the party prosecuting; but they shall be under no other restraint.

7. All pecuniary privileges and exemptions, enjoyed by any description of persons, are abolished.

8. All debts already contracted by the King, are hereby made the debts of the nation; and the
faith thereof is pledged for their payment in due time.

9. Eighty millions of livres are now granted to the King, to be raised by loan, and reimbursed
by the nation: and the taxes heretofore paid, shall continue to be paid to the end of the present
year, and no longer.

10. The States General shall now separate, and meet again on the 1st day of November next.

Done, on behalf of the whole nation, by the King and their representatives in the States General,
at Versailles, this ------ day of June, 1789.

Signed by the King, and by every member individually, and in his presence.

LETTER CCV.--TO THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE, June 12, 1789

TO THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE.

Paris, June 12, 1789.

My Dear Sir,

As I may not be able to get at you at Versailles, I write this to deliver it myself at your
door. With respect to the utility or inutility of your minority's joining the Commons, I am
unable to form an opinion for myself. I know too little of the subject to see what may be its
consequences.

I never knew an instance of the English parliament's undertaking to relieve the poor by a distribution
of bread in time of scarcity. In fact, the English commerce is so extensive and so active,
that though bread may be a little more or less plenty, there can never be an absolute failure.
The island is so narrow, that corn can be readily carried from the sea-ports to its interior
parts. But were an absolute want to happen, and were the parliament to undertake a distribution
of corn, I think, that according to the principles of their government, they would only vote
a sum of money, and address the King to employ it for the best. The business is, in its nature,
executive, and would require too great a variety of detail to be managed by an act of parliament.
However, I repeat it, that I never heard or read of an instance of the parliament's interfering
to give bread. If I see you at Versailles to-day, I can be more particular.

I am with great sincerity, my dear Sir, your affectionate friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson,

LETTER CCVI.--TO JOHN JAY, June 17, 1789

TO JOHN JAY.

Sir

Paris, June 17, 1789.

I had the honor of addressing you on the 9th and 12th of May, by the way of London. This goes
through the same channel to the care of Mr. Trumbull. Having received no letter from you of
later date than the 25th of November, I am apprehensive that there may have been miscarriages,
and the more so, as I learn, through another channel, that you have particularly answered mine
of November the 19th.

The death of the Grand Seignior, which has happened, renders the continuance of the war more
probable, as it has brought to the throne a successor of a more active and ardent temper, and
who means to put himself at the head of his armies. He has declared the Captain Pacha his Generalissimo.
The prospects for Russia, on the other hand, are less encouraging. Her principal ally, the
Emperor, is at death's door, blazing up a little indeed, from time to time like an expiring
taper, but certainly to extinguish soon. Denmark, too, is likely to be restrained by the threats
of England and Prussia, from contributing even her stipulated naval succors. It is some time
since I have been able to obtain any account of the King of England, on which I can rely with
confidence. His melancholy continues, and to such a degree, as to render him absolutely indifferent
to every thing that passes, so that he seems willing to let his ministers do every thing they
please, provided they will let him alone. When forced to speak, his comprehension seems better
than it was in the first moments after his phrensy went off. His health is bad: he does not
go into public at all, and very few are admitted to see him. This is his present state, according
to the best accounts I have been able to get lately. His ministers dictate boldly in the north,
because they know it is impossible they should be engaged in the war, while this country is
so completely palsied.

You will have seen by my former letters, that the question, whether the States General should
vote by persons or by orders, had stopped their proceedings in the very first instance in which
it could occur, that is, as to the verification of their powers, and that they had appointed
committees to try if there were any means of accommodation. These could do nothing. The King
then proposed that they should appoint others, to meet persons whom he should name, on the
same subject. These conferences also proved ineffectual. He then proposed a specific mode of
verifying. The clergy accepted it unconditionally; the Noblesse, with such conditions and modifications,
as did away their acceptance altogether. The Commons, considering this as a refusal, came to
the resolution of the 10th instant (which I have the honor to send you), inviting the two other
orders to come and take their places in the common room, and notifying that they should proceed
to the verification of powers, and to the affairs of the nation, either with or without them.
The Clergy have, as yet, given no answer. A few of their members have accepted the invitation
of the Commons, and have presented themselves in their room, to have their powers verified;
but how many it will detach, in the whole, from that body, cannot be known till an answer be
decided on. The Noblesse adhered to their former resolutions, and even the minority, well disposed
to the Commons, thought they could do more good in their own chamber, by endeavoring to increase
their numbers and fettering the measures of the majority, than by joining the Commons. An intrigue
was set on foot, between the leaders of the majority in that House, the Queen, and Princes.
They persuaded the King to go for some time to Marly: he went. On the same day, the leaders
moved in the chamber of Nobles, that they should address the King, to declare his own sentiments
on the great question between the orders. It was intended that this address should be delivered
to him at Marly, where, separated from his ministers, and surrounded by the Queen and Princes,
he might be surprised into a declaration for the Nobles. The motion was lost, however, by a
very great majority, that chamber being not yet quite ripe for throwing themselves into the
arms of despotism. Necker and Montmorin, who had discovered this intrigue, had warned some
of the minority to defeat it, or they could not answer for what would happen. These two and
St. Priest, are the only members of the Council in favor of the Commons. Luzerne, Puy-Segur,
and the others, are high aristocrats. The Commons having verified their powers, a motion was
made the day before yesterday, to declare themselves constituted, and to proceed to business.
I left them at two o'clock yesterday; the debates not then finished. They differed only about
forms of expression, but agreed in the substance, and probably decided yesterday, or will decide
to-day. Their next move, I fancy, will be to suppress all taxes, and instantly re-establish
them till the end of their session, in order to prevent a premature dissolution: and then they
will go to work on a declaration of rights and a constitution. The Noblesse, I suppose, will
be employed altogether in counter operations; the Clergy, that is to say, the higher Clergy,
and such of the Curés as they can bring over to their side, will be waiting and watching, merely
to keep themselves in their saddles. Their deportment, hitherto, is that of meekness and cunning.
The fate of the nation depends on the conduct of the King and his ministers. Were they to side
openly with the Commons, the revolution would be completed without a convulsion, by the establishment
of a constitution, tolerably free, and in which the distinction of Noble and Commoner would
be suppressed. But this is scarcely possible. The King is honest, and wishes the good of his
people; but the expediency of an hereditary aristocracy is too difficult a question for him.
On the contrary, his prejudices, his habits, and his connections decide him in his heart to
support it. Should they decide openly for the Noblesse, the Commons, after suppressing taxes,
and finishing their declaration of rights, would probably go home; a bankruptcy takes place
in the instant, Mr. Necker must go out, a resistance to the tax-gatherers follows, and probably
a civil war. These consequences are too evident and violent, to render this issue likely. Though
the Queen and Princes are infatuated enough to hazard it, the party in the ministry would not.
Something, therefore, like what I hinted in my letter of May the 12th, is still the most likely
to take place. While the Commons, either with or without their friends of the other two Houses,
shall be employed in framing a constitution, perhaps the government may set the other two Houses
to work on the same subject: and when the three schemes shall be ready, joint committees may
be negotiated, to compare them together, to see in what parts they agree; and probably they
will agree in all, except the organization of the future States General. As to this, it may
be endeavored, by the aid of wheedling and intimidation, to induce the two privileged chambers
to melt themselves into one, and the Commons, instead of one, to agree to two Houses of legislation.
I see no other middle ground to which they can be brought.

It is a tremendous cloud, indeed, which hovers over this nation, and he at the helm has neither
the courage nor the skill necessary to weather it. Eloquence in a high degree, knowledge in
matters of account, and order, are distinguishing traits in his character. Ambition is his
first passion, virtue his second. He has not discovered that sublime truth, that a bold, unequivocal
virtue is the best handmaid even to ambition, and would carry him further, in the end, than
the temporizing, wavering policy he pursues. His judgment is not of the first order, scarcely
even of the second; his resolution frail; and upon the whole, it is rare to meet an instance
of a person so much below the reputation he has obtained. As this character, by the post and
times in which Providence has placed it, is important to be known, I send it to you as drawn
by a person of my acquaintance, who knows him well. He is not, indeed, his friend, and allowance
must, therefore, be made for the high coloring. But this being abated, the facts and groundwork
of the drawing are just. If the Tiers separate, he goes at the same time; if they stay together,
and succeed in establishing a constitution to their mind, as soon as that is placed in safety,
they will abandon him to the mercy of the court, unless he can recover the confidence which
he has lost at present, and which, indeed, seems to be irrecoverable.

The inhabitants of St. Domingo, without the permission of the government, have chosen and sent
deputies to the States General. The question of their admission is to be discussed by the States.
In the mean time, the government had promised them an Assembly in their own Island, in the
course of the present year. The death of the Dauphin, so long expected, has at length happened.
Montmorin told Ternant the other day, that De Moustier had now asked a congé, which would be
sent him immediately. So that unless a change of ministry should happen, he will, probably,
be otherwise disposed of. The gazettes of France and Leyden accompany this.

P. S. June 18. The motion under debate with the Commons, for constituting their Assembly, passed
yesterday by a majority of four hundred and odd, against eighty odd. The latter were for it
in substance, but wished some particular amendment. They proceeded instantly to the subject
of taxation. A member who called on me this moment, gave me a state of the proceedings of yesterday,
from memory, which I enclose you. He left the House a little before the question was put, because
he saw there was no doubt of its passing, and his brother, who remained till the decision,
informed him of it. So that we may expect, perhaps, in the course of to-morrow, to see whether
the government will interpose with a bold hand, or will begin a negotiation. But in the mean
time, this letter must go off. I will find some other opportunity, however, of informing you
of the issue. T. J.

^^^ [Character of Mr. Necker, accompanying the preceding letter.]

Nature bestowed on Mr. Necker an ardent passion for glory, without, at the same time, granting
him those qualities required for its pursuit by direct means. The union of a fruitful imagination
with a limited talent, with which she has endowed him, is always incompatible with those faculties
of the mind which qualify their possessor to penetrate, to combine, and to comprehend all the
relations of objects.

He had probably learned in Geneva, his native country, the influence which riches exercise
on the success of ambition, without having recourse to the school of Paris, where he arrived
about the twenty-eighth year of his age. A personal affair with his brother, in which the chiefs
of the republic conducted themselves unjustly towards him, the circumstances of which, moreover,
exposed him to ridicule, determined him to forsake his country. On taking his leave, he assured
his mother that he would make a great fortune at Paris. On his arrival, he engaged himself
as clerk, at a salary of six hundred livres, with the banker Thelusson, a man of extreme harshness
in his intercourse with his dependants. The same cause which obliged other clerks to abandon
the service of Thelusson, determined Necker to continue in it. By submitting to the brutality
of his master with a servile resignation, whilst, at the same time, he devoted the most unremitting
attention to his business, he recommended himself to his confidence, and was taken into partnership.
Ordinary abilities only were requisite to avail him of the multitude of favorable circumstances,
which, before he entered into the administration, built up a fortune of six millions of livres.
He owed much of his good fortune to his connections with the Abbe Terrai, of whose ignorance
he did not scruple to profit. His riches, his profession, his table, and a virtuous, reasonable,
and well informed wife, procured him the acquaintance of many persons of distinction, among
whom were many men of letters, who celebrated his knowledge and wisdom.

The wise and just principles by which Turgot aimed to correct the Abuses of the administration,
not having been received with favor, he seized the occasion to flatter ignorance and malignity,
by publishing his work against the freedom of the corn trade.

He had published, two years before, an eulogy on Colbert. Both these productions exhibited
the limited capacity of a banker, and, in no degree, the enlarged views of a statesman. Not
at all delicate in the choice of his means, he succeeded to his wish in his object, which was
the establishing himself in public opinion. Elevated by a secret cabal to the direction of
the finances, he began by refusing the salaries of his office. He affected a spirit of economy
and austerity, which imposed even on foreign nations, and showed the possibility of making
war without laying new taxes. Such at least was his boast; but, in reality, they have been
increased under his administration, about twenty millions, partly by a secret augmentation
of the bailies and of the poll-tax, partly by some verifications of the twentieths, and partly
by the natural progression, which is tested by the amount of taxes on consumption, the necessary
result of the successive increase of population, of riches, and of expensive tastes.

All these circumstances reared for him an astonishing reputation, which his fall has consecrated.
People will not reflect, that, in the short period of his ministry, he had more than doubled
his fortune. Not that he had peculated on the public treasury; his good sense and pride forbade
a resort to this manuvre of weak minds; but by resorting to loans and the costly operations
of the bank, to provide the funds of war, and being still connected with the house to which
he addressed himself for much the greater part of his negotiations. They have not remarked
that his great principles of economy have nothing more than a false show, and that the loans
resorted to, in order to avoid the imposition of taxes, have been the source of the mischief
which has reduced the finances to their present alarming condition.

As to his compte rendu; he has been forgiven the nauseous panegyric which he has passed upon
himself, and the affectation of introducing his wife into it, for the purpose of praising her;
and we are spared the trouble of examining his false calculations. M. de Calonne has undertaken
this investigation. Without being able to vindicate himself, he has already begun to unmask
his antagonist, and he promises to do it effectually.

Necessity has recalled this man to the ministry: and it must be confessed, that he is beyond
comparison a less mischievous minister than his predecessors. I would compare him to a steward,
who, by his management, does not entirely ruin his master, but who enriches himself at his
expense. The desire of glory should inspire him as much as possible with the energy requisite
for the public business. There is every likelihood that his ministry will not endure long enough,
to cause it to feel the effects of his false principles of administration: and it is he alone
who is able, if any one can, to preserve order in the finances, until the reform is effected
which we hope from the assembling of the States General. In the mean time, the public estimation
of his talents and virtue is not so high as it has been. There are persons who pretend that
he is more firmly established in public opinion than he ever was. They deceive themselves.
The ambitious desire he has always manifested of getting again into the administration, his
work on the Importance of Religious Opinions, and the Memoires of M. de Calonne, have greatly
impaired his reputation.

LETTER CCVII.--TO JAMES MADISON, June 18, 1789

TO JAMES MADISON.

Paris, June 18, 1789.

Sir,

My last to you was of May the 11th. Yours of March the 29th came to hand ten days ago; and
about two days ago, I received a cover of your hand-writing, under which were a New York paper
of May the 4th, and a letter from Mr. Page to Mazzei. There being no letter from you, makes
me hope there is one on the way, which will inform me of my congé. I have never received Mr.
Jay's answer to my public letter of November the 19th, which you mention him to have written,
and which I fear has been intercepted. I know only from you, that my letter got safe to hand.
My baggage has been made up more than a month, so that I shall leave Paris almost in the instant
of receiving the permission.

The campaign begins under unfavorable auspices for Russia. The death of the Grand Seignior,
who was personally disposed for peace, has brought a young and ardent successor to the throne,
determined to push the war to extremity. Her only ally, the Emperor, is in articulo mortis,
and the grand Duke of Tuscany, should he succeed, loves peace and money. Denmark is forbidden
by England and Prussia to furnish even its stipulated maritime aid. There is no appearance
of any other power's engaging in the war. As far as I can discover, the King of England is
somewhat better in his head, but under such a complete depression of spirits, that he does
not care how the world goes, and leaves his ministers to do as they please. It is impossible
for you to conceive how difficult it is to know the truth relative to him, he is environed
in such an atmosphere of lies. Men who would not speak a falsehood on any other subject, lie
on this, from a principle of duty; so that even eye-witnesses cannot be believed without scanning
their principles and connections; and few will stand this, of the very few permitted to see him.

Committees of conciliation having failed in their endeavors to bring together the three chambers
of the States General, the King proposed a specific mode of verifying their powers; for that
having been the first question which presented itself to them, was the one in which the question
of voting by persons or orders was first brought on. The clergy accepted unconditionally. The
Noblesse accepted on conditions which reduced the acceptance to nothing at all. The Commons
considered this as a refusal on the part of the Nobles, and thereupon took their definitive
resolution, to invite the other two orders to come and verify their powers in common, and to
notify them they should proceed with or without them to verify, and to do the business of the
nation. This was on the 10th. On the 15th, they moved to declare themselves the National Assembly.
The debates on this were finished yesterday, when the proposition was agreed to, by four hundred
and odd, against eighty odd. The minority agreed in substance, but wished some particular amendment.
They then immediately made the proposition relative to taxes, which I enclose you, as this
moment stated to me, by memory, by a member who left the Assembly a little before the question,
because there was no opposition to the matter, but only to the form. He assures me, on the
information of another member who was present, that Target's motion passed. We shall know,
I think, within a day or two, whether the government will risk a bankruptcy and civil war,
rather than see all distinction of orders done way, which is what the Commons will push for.
If the fear of the former alternative prevails, they will spin the matter into negotiation.
The Commons have in their chamber almost all the talents of the nation; they are firm and bold,
yet moderate. There is indeed, among them, a number of very hot-headed members; but those of
most influence are cool, temperate, and sagacious. Every step of this House has been marked
with caution and wisdom. The Noblesse, on the contrary, are absolutely out of their senses.
They are so furious, they can seldom debate at all. They have few men of moderate talents,
and not one of great, in the majority. Their proceedings have been very injudicious. The Clergy
are waiting to profit of every incident to secure themselves, and have no other object in view.
Among the Commons, there is an entire unanimity on the great question of voting by persons.
Among the Noblesse, there are about sixty for the Commons, and about three times that number
against them. Among the Clergy, about twenty have already come over and joined the Commons,
and in the course of a few days, they will be joined by many more, not indeed making the majority
of that House, but very near it. The Bishops and Archbishops have been very successful by bribes
and intrigues, in detaching the Curés from the Commons, to whom they were at first attached
to a man. The Commons are about, five hundred and fifty-four in number, of whom three hundred
and forty-four are of the Jaw. These do not possess an influence founded in property; but in
their habits of business and acquaintance with the people, and in their means of exciting them
as they please. The Curés, throughout the kingdom, form the mass of the Clergy; they are the
only part favorably known to the people, because solely charged with the duties of baptism,
burial, confession, visitation of the sick, instruction of the children, and aiding the poor;
they are themselves of the people, and united with them. The carriages and equipage only of
the higher Clergy, not their persons, are known to the people, and are in detestation with
them. The soldiers will follow their officers, that is to say, their captains, lieutenants,
and ensigns. These are of the lower nobility, and therefore much divided. The colonels and
higher officers are of the higher nobility, are seldom with the soldiers, little known to them,
not possessing their attachment. These circumstances give them little weight in the partition
of the army.

I give you these miscellaneous observations, that knowing somewhat the dispositions of the
parties, you may be able to judge of the future for yourself, as I shall not be here to continue
its communication to you.

Sir,

Paris, June 24,1789.

My letter of the 17th and 18th instant gave you the progress of the States General to the 17th,
when the Tiers had declared the illegality of all the existing taxes, and their discontinuance
from the end of their present session. The next day, being a jour de fete, could furnish no
indication of the impression that vote was likely to make on the government. On the 19th, a
Council was held at Marly, in the afternoon. It was there proposed, that the King should interpose
by a declaration of his sentiments in a seance royale. While the Council was engaged in this
deliberation at Marly, the chamber of the Clergy was in debate, whether they should accept
the invitation of the Tiers to unite with them in the common chamber. On the first question,
to unite simply and unconditionally, it was decided in the negative by a very small majority.
As it was known however, that some members who had voted in the negative, would be for the
affirmative, with some modifications, the question was put with these modifications, and it
was determined by a majority of eleven members, that their body should join the Tiers. These
proceedings of the Clergy were unknown to the Council at Marly, and those of the Council were
kept secret from every body. They presumed, in the first moment, that their dissolution was
decided, and repaired to another place, where they proceeded to business. It was intimated
to them, however, that day, privately, that the proceedings of the seance royale would be favorable
to them. The next day they met in a church, and were joined by a majority of the Clergy. The
heads of the aristocracy saw that all was lost without some violent exertion. The King was
still at Marly. Nobody was permitted to approach him but their friends. The nobility were in
triumph, the people in consternation. He was about an hour in the House, delivering his speech
and declaration, copies of which I enclose you. When the Duke d'Orleans followed, however,
their applauses were excessive. This must have been sensible to the King. Not a word has transpired
of what passed at these interviews. These circumstances must wound the heart of the King, desirous
as he is, to possess the affections of his subjects. As soon as the proceedings at Versailles
were known at Paris, a run began on the caisse d'escompte, which is the first symptom always
of the public diffidence and alarm. It is the less in condition to meet the run, as Mr. Necker
has been forced to make free with its funds, for the daily support of the government. This
is the state of things as late as I am able to give them with certainty, at this moment. My
letter not being to go off till to-morrow evening, I shall go to Versailles to-morrow, and
be able to add the transactions of this day and to-morrow.

June 25. Just returned from Versailles, I am enabled to continue my narration. On the 24th,
nothing remarkable passed, except an attack by the mob of Versailles on the Archbishop of Paris,
who had been one of the instigators of the court, to the proceedings of the, seance royale.
They threw mud and stones at his carriage, broke the windows of it, and he in a fright promised
to join the Tiers.

This day (the 25th) forty-eight of the Nobles have joined the Tiers. Among these is the Duke
d'Orleans. The Marquis de la Fayette could not be of the number, being restrained by his instructions.
He is writing to his constituents, to change his instructions or to accept his resignation.
There are with the Tiers now one hundred and sixty-four members of the Clergy, so that the
common chamber consists of upwards of eight hundred members. The minority of the Clergy, however,
call themselves the Chamber of the Clergy, and pretend to go on with business. I found the
streets of Versailles much embarrassed with soldiers. There was a body of about one hundred
horse drawn up in front of the Hotel of the States, and all the avenues and doors guarded by
soldiers. Nobody was permitted to enter but the members, and this was by order of the King;
for till now, the doors of the common room have been open, and at least two thousand spectators
attending their debates constantly. They have named a deputation to wait on the King, and desire
a removal of the soldiery from their doors, and seem determined, if this is not complied with,
to remove themselves elsewhere.

Instead of being dismayed with what has passed, they seem to rise in their demands, and some
of them to consider the erasing every vestige of a difference of order, as indispensable to
the establishment and preservation of a good constitution. I apprehend there is more courage
than calculation in this project. I did imagine, that seeing that Mr. Necker and themselves
were involved as common enemies in the hatred of the aristocrats, they would have been willing
to make common cause with him, and to wish his continuance in office; and that Mr. Necker,
seeing that all the trimming he has used towards the court and Nobles has availed him nothing,
would engage himself heartily and solely on the popular side, and view his own salvation in
that alone. The confidence which the people place in him, seems to merit some attention. However,
the mass of the common chamber are absolutely indifferent to his remaining in office. They
consider his head as unequal to the planning a good constitution, and his fortitude to a co-operation
in the effecting it. His dismission is more credited to-day than it was yesterday. If it takes
place, he will retain his popularity with the nation, as the members of the States will not
think it important to set themselves against it, but on the contrary, will be willing that
he should continue on their side, on his retirement. The run on the caisse d'escompte continues.
The members of the States admit, that Mr. Necker's departure out of office will occasion a
stoppage of public payments. But they expect to prevent any very ill effect, by assuring the
public against any loss, and by taking immediate measures for continuing payment. They may,
perhaps, connect these measures with their own existence, so as to interest the public in whatever
catastrophe may be aimed at them. The gazettes of France and Leyden accompany this. During
the continuance of this crisis and my own stay, I shall avail myself of every private conveyance
to keep you informed of what passes.

Paris, June 29, 1789.

Sir,

My letter of the 25th gave you the transactions of the States General to
the afternoon of that day. On the next, the Archbishop of Paris joined
the Tiers, as did some others of the Clergy and Noblesse. On the
27th, the question of the St. Domingo deputation came on, and it was
decided that it should be received. I have before mentioned to you the
ferment into which the proceedings at the seance royale of the 23rd
had thrown the people. The soldiery also were affected by it. Those whose powers
     are too limited, may decline voting until new powers are
     procured. This will be a new mark of attachment which my
     Clergy will give me. I pray God, my Cousin, to have you in
     his holy keeping. LOUIS.'

A like letter was written to the Duke de Luxemburgh, President of the Noblesse. The two chambers
entered into debate on the question, whether they should obey the letter of the King. As soon
as this was known to the people of Versailles, they assembled about the palace, demanded the
King and Queen, who came and showed themselves in a balcony. They rent the skies with cries
of 'Vive la Roy,' 'Vive la Reine.' They, called for the Dauphin, who was also produced, and
was the subject of new acclamations. After feasting themselves and the royal family with this
tumultuary reconciliation, they went to the house of Mr. Necker and M. de Montmorin, with shouts
of thankfulness and affection. Similar emotions of joy took place in Paris, and at this moment,
the triumph of the Tiers is considered as complete. Tomorrow they will recommence business,
voting by persons on all questions: and whatever difficulties may be opposed in debate by the
malcontents of the Clergy and Nobility, every thing must be finally settled at the will of
the Tiers. It remains to see whether they will leave to the nobility any thing but their titulary
appellations. I suppose they will not. Mr. Necker will probably remain in office. It would
seem natural that he should endeavor to have the hostile part of the Council removed, but I
question if he finds himself firm enough for that. A perfect co-operation with the Tiers will
be his wisest game. This great crisis being now over, I shall not have matter interesting enough
to trouble you with, as often as I have done lately.

Paris, July 6, 1789.

Dear Sir,

I never made an offer to any body to have corn or flour brought here from America: no such
idea ever entered my head. Mr. Necker desired me to give information in America, that there
would be a want of flour. I did so in a letter to Mr. Jay, which he published with my name
to it, for the encouragement of the merchants. Those here, who have named me on this subject,
must have mistaken me for Mr. Parker. I have heard him say, he offered to Mr. Necker to bring
a large supply, yet I do not think I ever repeated this: or if I did, it must have been in
a company I relied on. I will thank you to satisfy Mr. Necker of the truth. It would be disagreeable,
and perhaps mischievous, were he to have an idea that I encouraged censures on him. I will
bring you the paper you desire to-morrow; and shall dine at the Dutchess Danville's, where
I shall be happy to meet you.

Adieu. Yours affectionately.

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CCXI.--TO THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE, July 7,1789

TO THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE.

Paris, July 7,1789.

Dear Sir,

Your letter of yesterday gave me the first information that Monsieur de Mirabeau had suggested
to the honorable the Assembly of the Nation, that I had made an offer to Mr. Necker to obtain
from America a quantity of corn or flour, which had been refused. I know not how Monsieur de
Mirabeau has been led into this error. I never in my life made any proposition to Mr. Necker
on the subject: I never said I had made such a proposition. Some time last autumn, Mr. Necker
did me the honor to desire I would have notified in the United States, that corn and flour
would meet with a good sale in France. I conveyed this notice, in a letter to Mr. Jay, Secretary
for Foreign Affairs, as you will see by the extract of my letter published by him in an American
gazette, which I have the honor to send you.

Paris, July 8, 1789

Sir,

I have the honor to enclose you a copy of my letter to Monsieur de la Fayette. When I called
on him yesterday, he had already spoken to Monsieur de Mirabeau, who acknowledged he had been
in an error in what he had advanced in the Assembly of the Nation, as to the proposition supposed
to have been made by me to your Excellency, and undertook to declare his error, when the subject
should be resumed by the Assembly, to whom my letter to the Marquis de la Fayette will be also
read.

Paris, July 8, 1789.

Sir,

My hotel having been lately robbed for the third time, I take the liberty of uniting my wish
with that of the inhabitants of this quarter, that it might coincide with the arrangements
of police, to extend to us the protection of a guard. While the Douane remained here, no accident
of that kind happened, but since their removal, other houses in the neighborhood have been
robbed as well as mine. Perhaps it may lessen the difficulties of this request, that the house
occupied by the people of the Douane, will lodge abundantly a corps de garde. On the one side
of that house is Chaillot, on the other the Roule, on the third the Champs Elysees, where accidents
are said to happen very frequently, all of which are very distant from any corps de garde.

Paris, July 9, 1789.

Dear Sir,

Having been curious to form some estimate of the quantity of corn and flour which have been
supplied to France this year, I applied to a person in the Farms to know upon what quantities
the premium had been paid. He could not give me information, but as to the Atlantic ports,
into which there have been imported from the United States, from March to May inclusive, forty-four
thousand one hundred and sixteen quintals of corn, twelve thousand two hundred and twenty-one
quintals of flour, making fifty-six thousand three hundred and thirty-seven quintals in the
whole. Add to this what has been imported since May, suppose nearly twenty thousand quintals
a month, and what has been furnished to the French islands, which has prevented an equal quantity
being exported from France, and you will have the proportion drawn from us. Observe, that we
have regular and constant markets for our corn and flour in Spain, Portugal, and all the West
India islands, except the French. These take nearly our whole quantity. This year, France,
the French West Indies, and Canada were added. But a regular course of trade is not quitted
in an instant, nor constant customers deserted for accidental ones. This is the reason that
so small a proportion has come here.

I am, Dear Sir, with great sincerity, your affectionate friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CCXV.--TO THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE, July 10, 1789

TO THE MARQUIS DE LA FAYETTE.

Paris, July 10, 1789.

Dear Sir,

The acknowledgment by Monsieur de Mirabeau to the National Assembly, that he had been in an
error as to the offer he supposed me to have made, and the reading to them my letter, seem
to be all that was requisite for any just purpose. As I was unwilling my name should be used
to injure the minister, I am also unwilling it should be used to injure Monsieur de Mirabeau.
I learn that his enemies in Paris are framing scandalous versions of my letter. I think, therefore,
with you, it may be better to print it, and I send you a copy of it. I gave copies of it to
Monsieur de Montmorin and Monsieur Necker, as was my duty.

Paris, July 11, 1789.

Dear Sir,

Since my last, which was of May the 19th, I have received yours of June the 17th and 18th.
I am struck with the idea of the geometrical wheel-barrow, and will beg of you a farther account,
if it can be obtained. I have no news yet of my congé.

Though you have doubtless heard most of the proceedings of the States General since my last,
I will take up the narration where that left it, that you may be able to separate the true
from the false accounts you have heard. A good part of what was conjecture in that letter,
is now become true history.

*****

The National Assembly, then, (for that is the name they take,) having shown through every stage
of these transactions a coolness, wisdom, and resolution to set fire to the four corners of
the kingdom, and to perish with it themselves, rather than to relinquish an iota from their
plan of a total change of government, are now in complete and undisputed possession of the
sovereignty. The executive and aristocracy are at their feet; the mass of the nation, the mass
of the clergy, and the army are with them: they have prostrated the old government, and are
now beginning to build one from the foundation. A committee, charged with the arrangement of
their business, gave in, two days ago, the following order of proceedings.

'1. Every government should have for its only end, the preservation of the rights of man: whence
it follows, that to recall constantly the government to the end proposed, the constitution
should begin by a declaration of the natural and imprescriptible rights of man.

'2. Monarchical government being proper to maintain those rights, it has been chosen by the
French nation. It suits especially a great society; it is necessary for the happiness of France.
The declaration of the principles of this government, then, should follow immediately the declaration
of the rights of man.

'3. It results from the principles of monarchy, that the nation, to assure its own rights,
has yielded particular rights to the monarch: the constitution, then, should declare, in a
precise manner, the rights of both. It should begin by declaring the rights of the French nation,
and then should declare the rights of the King.

'4. The rights of the King and nation not existing but for the happiness of the individuals
who compose it, they lead to an examination of the rights of citizens.

'5. The French nation not being capable of assembling individually to exercise all its rights,
it ought to be represented. It is necessary, then, to declare the form of its representation
and the rights of its representatives.

'6. From the union of the powers of the nation and King, should result the enacting and execution
of the laws: thus, then, it should first be determined how the laws shall be established; afterwards
should be considered, how they shall be executed.

'7. Laws have for their object the general administration of the kingdom, the property, and
the actions of the citizens. The execution of the laws which concern the general administration,
requires Provincial and Municipal Assemblies. It is necessary to examine, therefore, what should
be the organization of the Provincial Assemblies, and what of the Municipal.

'8. The execution of the laws, which concern the property and actions of the citizens, calls
for a judiciary power. It should be determined how that should be confided, and then its duties
and limits.

'9. For the execution of the laws and the defence of the kingdom, there exists a public force.
It is necessary, then, to determine the principles which should direct it, and how it should
be employed.

'Recapitulation.

'Declaration of the rights of man. While there are some men among them of very superior abilities,
the mass possess such a degree of good sense, as enables them to decide well. I have always
been afraid their numbers might lead to confusion. Twelve hundred men in one room are too many.
I have still that fear. Another apprehension is, that a majority cannot be induced to adopt
the trial by jury, and I consider that as the only anchor ever yet imagined by man, by which
a government can be held to the principles of its constitution. Mr. Paradise is the bearer
of this letter. He can supply those details which it would be so tedious to write.

I am, with great esteem, Dear Sir, your friend and servant,

Th: Jefferson.

