But this is by no means, in its civilizing effect, a railroad. A railroad drives lawlessness
before it--the Music Mountain country still leans on stage-line law. The bullion wagons still
travel the difficult roads. They look for safety to their armed horsemen; the four and six
horse stages look to the armed guard, the wayfarer must look to his horse--and it should be
a good one; the mountain rancher to his rifle, the cattle thief to the moonless night, the
bandit to his wits, the gunman to his holster: these include practically all of the people
that travel the Spanish Sinks, except the Morgans and the Mormons. The Mormons looked to the
Morgans for safety; the Morgans to themselves.

For many a year the Morgans have been almost overlords of the Music Mountain country. They
own, or have laid claim to, an extended territory in the mountains, a Spanish grant. One of
the first mountain Morgans married a Spanish girl, and during the early days, when the Morgans
were not fighting some one out of court, they were fighting some one in court on their endless
and involved titles.

But whether they won domain in lawsuit or lost it, one pearl of their holdings they never submitted
to the jurisdiction of any tribunal other than their own arms. Morgan's Gap opens south of
Music Mountain, less than ten miles west of Calabasas. It is a narrow valley where valleys
are more precious than water--for the mountain valley means water--and this in a country where
water is much more precious than life. And some of the best of this land at the foot of Music
Mountain was the maternal inheritance of Nan Morgan.

At Calabasas the Thief River stage line maintains completely equipped relay barns. They are
over twenty miles from Sleepy Cat, but nearly fifty the other way from Thief River. The unequal
division is not due to what was desirable when the route was laid out, but to the limit of
what man could do in the never-conquered desert. This supplies at Calabasas a spring, to tempt
the unwary traveller still farther within its clutches. A large number of horses are kept at
Calabasas, and the barn crews are quartered there in a company barrack. Along the low ridges
and in the shallow depressions about Calabasas Spring there are a very few widely separated
shacks, once built by freighters and occupied by squatter outlaws to be within reach of water.
This gives the vicinity something of the appearance of a poorly sustained prairie-dog town.
And except these shacks, there is nothing between Calabasas, Thief River, and the mountains
except sunshine and alkali. I say nothing, meaning especially nothing, in the way of a human
habitation.

But there is a queer inn at Calabasas. A pioneer Thief River prospector, mad with thirst, fought
his way across the Sinks to the Calabasas Spring, and wandered thence one day into Sleepy Cat.
In a delirium of gratitude he ordered built at Calabasas what he termed a hotel, to provide
at that forbidden oasis for the luxurious comfort of future thirst-mad wanderers. It was built
of lumber hauled a thousand miles, and equipped with luxuries brought three thousand--a fearsome,
rambling structure, big enough for all the prospectors in the Rocky Mountains.

Having built this monument, creditable to his good-will rather than his good sense, the unfortunate
man went really mad, and had the sorry distinction of being the first person to be put in the
insane asylum at Bear Dance. It had never occurred to him that any one had any title to, or
that any madder man would lay any claim to, so accursed a spot as Calabasas. But old Duke Morgan
announced in due time that the hotel was built on Morgan land, and belonged to the Morgans.
Nobody outside a madhouse could be found to dispute with Duke Morgan a title to land within
ten miles of Morgan's Gap, and none but a lunatic would attempt to run a hotel at Calabasas,
anyway. However, a solution of the difficulty was found: Duke's colorable title gave the cue
to his retainers in the Gap, and in time they carted away piecemeal most of the main building,
leaving for years the kitchen and the servants' quarters adjoining it to owls, lizards, scorpions,
and spiders.

Meantime, to tap the fast-developing gold-fields, the freight route and stages had been put
in, and the barns built at Calabasas. A need naturally developed for at least one feature of
a hotel--a barroom. A newer lunatic answered the call of civilization--a man only mildly insane
stocked the kitchen range with liquors, and fitted up in a crude way the ice-boxes--where there
never was ice--serving pantries, and other odd nooks for sleeping quarters. Here the thirsty
stage passenger, little suspecting the origin of the facilities offered him for a drink, may
choose strong drink instead of water--or rather, he is restricted to strong drink where water
might once have been had--the spring being piped now half a mile to the barns for the horses.
And this shack, as it is locally called, run by a Mexican, is still the inn at Calabasas. And
it continues to contribute, through its stirring annals, to the tragic history of the continental
divide.

It need hardly be said that Duke Morgan laid claim also to the Calabasas Spring. But on this
the company, being a corporation, fought him. And after somewhat less of argument and somewhat
more of siege and shooting, a compromise was reached whereby the company bought annually at
an exorbitant price all of Duke, Satterlee, and Vance Morgan's hay, and as the Morgans had
small rivers of water in the mountains, and never, except when crowded, drank water, a modus
vivendi was arranged between the claimants. The only sufferer through this was the Mexican
publican, who found every Morgan his landlord, and demanding from him tithes over the bar.
But force is usually met with cunning, and such Morgans as would not pay in advance at Calabasas,
when thirsty, often found the half-mad publican out of goods.

The Calabasas Inn stood in one of the loneliest canyons of the whole seventy miles between
Sleepy Cat and Thief River; it looked in its depletion to be what it was, a sombre, mysterious,
sun, wind, and alkali beaten pile, around which no one by any chance ever saw a sign of life.
It was a ruin like those pretentious deserted structures sometimes seen in frontier towns--relics
of the wide-open days, which stand afterward, stark and sombre, to serve as bats' nests or
blind-pigs. The inn at Calabasas looked its part--a haunt of rustlers, a haven of nameless
men, a refuge of road-agents.

The very first time de Spain made an inspection trip over the stage line with Lefever, he was
conscious of the sinister air of this lonely building. He and Lefever had ridden down from
the barn, while their horses were being changed, to look at the place. De Spain wanted to look
over everything connected in any way, however remotely, with the operation of his wagons, and
this joint, Lefever had told him, was where the freighters and drivers were not infrequently
robbed of their money. It was here that one of their own men, Bill McCarty, once "scratched
a man's neck" with a knife--which, Bill explained, he just "happened" to have in his hand--for
cheating at cards. Lefever pointed out the unlucky gambler's grave as he and de Spain rode
into the canyon toward the inn.

