III.

         LONDON:
  FREDERICK WARNE AND CO.
      AND NEW YORK

CONTENTS OF VOLUME III.

                                                                PAGE
  LOCAL DESCRIPTIONS                                               1

  MASQUES                                                          4

  OF DES MAIZEAUX, AND THE SECRET HISTORY OF ANTHONY COLLINS'S
    MANUSCRIPTS                                                   13

  HISTORY OF NEW WORDS                                            23

  THE PHILOSOPHY OF PROVERBS                                      32

  CONFUSION OF WORDS                                              65

  POLITICAL NICKNAMES                                             80

  THE DOMESTIC LIFE OF A POET--SHENSTONE VINDICATED               90

  SECRET HISTORY OF THE BUILDING OF BLENHEIM                     102

  SECRET HISTORY OF SIR WALTER RAWLEIGH                          111

  AN AUTHENTIC NARRATIVE OF THE LAST HOURS OF SIR WALTER
    RAWLEIGH                                                     124

  LITERARY UNIONS                                                131

  OF A BIOGRAPHY PAINTED                                         136

  CAUSE AND PRETEXT                                              141

  POLITICAL FORGERIES AND FICTIONS                               144

  EXPRESSION OF SUPPRESSED OPINION                               150

  AUTOGRAPHS                                                     168

  THE HISTORY OF WRITING-MASTERS                                 167

  THE ITALIAN HISTORIANS                                         177

  OF PALACES BUILT BY MINISTERS                                  186

  "TAXATION NO TYRANNY"                                          193

  THE BOOK OF DEATH                                              200

  HISTORY OF THE SKELETON OF DEATH                               206

  THE RIVAL BIOGRAPHERS OF HEYLIN                                215

  OF LENGLET DU FRESNOY                                          221

  THE DICTIONARY OF TREVOUX                                      229

  QUADRIO'S ACCOUNT OF ENGLISH POETRY                            233

  "POLITICAL RELIGIONISM"                                        238

  TOLERATION                                                     245

  APOLOGY FOR THE PARISIAN MASSACRE                              255

  PREDICTION                                                     260

  DREAMS AT THE DAWN OF PHILOSOPHY                               280

  ON PUCK THE COMMENTATOR                                        296

  LITERARY FORGERIES                                             303

  OF LITERARY FILCHERS                                           316

  OF LORD BACON AT HOME                                          320

  SECRET HISTORY OF THE DEATH OF QUEEN ELIZABETH                 328

  JAMES THE FIRST AS A FATHER AND A HUSBAND                      333

  THE MAN OF ONE BOOK                                            337

  A BIBLIOGNOSTE                                                 340

  SECRET HISTORY OF AN ELECTIVE MONARCHY                         346

  BUILDINGS IN THE METROPOLIS, AND RESIDENCE IN THE COUNTRY      363

  ROYAL PROCLAMATIONS                                            371

  TRUE SOURCES OF SECRET HISTORY                                 380

  LITERARY RESIDENCES                                            394

  WHETHER ALLOWABLE TO RUIN ONESELF?                             400

  DISCOVERIES OF SECLUDED MEN                                    408

  SENTIMENTAL BIOGRAPHY                                          414

  LITERARY PARALLELS                                             425

  THE PEARL BIBLES, AND SIX THOUSAND ERRATA                      427

  VIEW OF A PARTICULAR PERIOD OF THE STATE OF RELIGION IN OUR
     CIVIL WARS                                                  423

  BUCKINGHAM'S POLITICAL COQUETRY WITH THE PURITANS              443

  SIR EDWARD COKE'S EXCEPTIONS AGAINST THE HIGH SHERIFF'S OATH   446

  SECRET HISTORY OF CHARLES THE FIRST AND HIS FIRST PARLIAMENTS  448

  THE RUMP                                                       482

  LIFE AND HABITS OF A LITERARY ANTIQUARY--OLDYS AND HIS
    MANUSCRIPTS                                                  493

  INDEX                                                          513

CURIOSITIES OF LITERATURE.

LOCAL DESCRIPTIONS.

Nothing is more idle, and, what is less to be forgiven in a writer, more tedious, than minute
and lengthened descriptions of localities; where it is very doubtful whether the writers themselves
had formed any tolerable notion of the place they describe,--it is certain their readers never
can! These descriptive passages, in which writers of imagination so frequently indulge, are
usually a glittering confusion of unconnected things; circumstances recollected from others,
or observed by themselves at different times; the finest are thrust in together. If a scene
from nature, it is possible that all the seasons of the year may be jumbled together; or if
a castle or an apartment, its magnitude or its minuteness may equally bewilder. Yet we find,
even in works of celebrity, whole pages of these general or these particular descriptive sketches,
which leave nothing behind but noun substantives propped up by random epithets. The old writers
were quite delighted to fill up their voluminous pages with what was a great saving of sense
and thinking. In the Alaric of Scudery sixteen pages, containing nearly five hundred verses,
describe a palace, commencing at the façade, and at length finishing with the garden; but his
description, we may say, was much better described by Boileau, whose good taste felt the absurdity
of this "abondance stérile," in overloading a work with useless details,

  Un auteur, quelquefois, trop plein de son objet,
  Jamais sans l'épuiser n'abandonne un sujet.
  S'il rencontre un palais il m'en dépeint la face,
  Il me promène après de terrasae en terrasse.
  Ici s'offre un perron, là règne un corridor;
  Là ce balcon s'enferme en un balustre d'or;
  Il compte les plafonds, les ronds, et les ovales--
  Je saute vingt feuillets pour en trouver la fin;
  Et je me sauve à peine au travers du jardin!

And then he adds so excellent a canon of criticism, that we must not neglect it:--

  Tout ce qu'on dit de trop est fade et rébutant;
  L'esprit rassasié le rejette à l'instant,
  Qui ne sait se borner, ne sut jamais écrire.

We have a memorable instance of the inefficiency of local descriptions in a very remarkable
one by a writer of fine genius, composing with an extreme fondness of his subject, and curiously
anxious to send down to posterity the most elaborate display of his own villa--this was the
Laurentinum of Pliny. We cannot read his letter to Gallus, which the English reader may in
Melmoth's elegant version,[1] without somewhat participating in the delight of the writer in
many of its details; but we cannot with the writer form the slightest conception of his villa,
while he is leading us over from apartment to apartment, and pointing to us the opposite wing,
with a "beyond this," and a "not far from thence," and "to this apartment another of the same
sort," &c. Yet, still, as we were in great want of a correct knowledge of a Roman villa, and
as this must be the most so possible, architects have frequently studied, and the learned translated
with extraordinary care, Pliny's Description of his Laurentinum. It became so favourite an
object, that eminent architects have attempted to raise up this edifice once more, by giving
its plan and elevation; and this extraordinary fact is the result--that not one of them but
has given a representation different from the other! Montfaucon, a more faithful antiquary,
in his close translation of the description of this villa, in comparing it with Felibien's
plan of the villa itself, observes, "that the architect accommodated his edifice to his translation,
but that their notions are not the same; unquestionably," he adds, "if ten skilful translators
were to perform their task separately, there would not be one who agreed with another!"

If, then, on this subject of local descriptions, we find that it is impossible to convey exact
notions of a real existing scene, what must we think of those which, in truth, describe scenes
which have no other existence than the confused makings-up of an author's invention; where
the more he details the more he confuses; and where the more particular he wishes to be, the
more indistinct the whole appears?

Local descriptions, after a few striking circumstances have been selected, admit of no further
detail. It is not their length, but their happiness, which enters into our comprehension; the
imagination can only take in and keep together a very few parts of a picture. The pen must
not intrude on the province of the pencil, any more than the pencil must attempt to perform
what cannot in any shape be submitted to the eye, though fully to the mind.

The great art, perhaps, of local description, is rather a general than a particular view; the
details must be left to the imagination; it is suggestion rather than description. There is
an old Italian sonnet of this kind which I have often read with delight; and though I may not
communicate the same pleasure to the reader, yet the story of the writer is most interesting,
and the lady (for such she was) has the highest claim to be ranked, like the lady of Evelyn,
among literary wives.

Francesca Turina Bufalini di Citta di Castello, of noble extraction, and devoted to literature,
had a collection of her poems published in 1628. She frequently interspersed little domestic
incidents of her female friend, her husband, her son, her grandchildren; and in one of these
sonnets she has delineated her palace of San Giustino, whose localities she appears to have
enjoyed with intense delight in the company of "her lord," whom she tenderly associates with
the scene. There is a freshness and simplicity in the description, which will perhaps convey
a clearer notion of the spot than even Pliny could do in the voluminous description of his
villa. She tells us what she found when brought to the house of her husband:--

  Ampie salle, ampie loggie, ampio cortile
    E stanze ornate con gentil pitture,
    Trovai giungendo, e nobili sculture
    Di marmo fatte, da scalpel non vile.
  Nobil giardin con un perpetuo Aprile
    Di varij fior, di frutti, e di verdure,
    Ombre soavi, acque a temprar l'arsure
    E strade di beltà non dissimile;
  E non men forte estel, che per fortezza
    Ha il ponte, e i fianchi, e lo circonda intorno
    Fosso profundo e di real larghezza.
  Qui fei col mio Signore dolce soggiorno
    Con santo amor, con somma contentezza
    Onde ne benedico il mese e il giorno!

  Wide halls, wide galleries, and an ample court,
  Chambers adorn'd by pictures' soothing charm,
  I found together blended; noble sculpture
  In marble, polish'd by no chisel vile;
  A noble garden, where a lasting April
  All-various flowers and fruits and verdure showers;
  Soft shades, and waters tempering the hot air;
  And undulating paths in equal beauty!
  Nor less the castled glory stands in force,
  And bridged and flanked. And round its circuit winds
  The deepened moat, showing a regal size.
  Here with my lord I cast my sweet sojourn,
  With holy love, and with supreme content;
  And hence I bless the month, and bless the day!

FOOTNOTES:

  [1] Book ii. lett. 17.

MASQUES.

It sometimes happens, in the history of national amusements, that a name survives while the
thing itself is forgotten. This has been remarkably the case with our court Masques, respecting
which our most eminent writers long ventured on so many false opinions, with a perfect ignorance
of the nature of these compositions, which combined all that was exquisite in the imitative
arts of poetry, painting, music, song, dancing, and machinery, at a period when our public
theatre was in its rude infancy. Convinced of the miserable state of our represented drama,
and not then possessing that more curious knowledge of their domestic history which we delight
to explore, they were led into erroneous notions of one of the most gorgeous, the most fascinating,
and the most poetical of dramatic amusements. Our present theatrical exhibitions are, indeed,
on a scale to which the twopenny audiences of the barn playhouses of Shakspeare could never
have strained their sight; and our picturesque and learned costume, with the brilliant changes
of our scenery, would have maddened the "property-men" and the "tire-women" of the Globe or
the Red Bull.[2] Shakspeare himself never beheld the true magical illusions of his own dramas,
with "Enter the Red Coat," and "Exit Hat and Cloak," helped out with "painted cloths;" or,
as a bard of Charles the Second's time chants--

                      Look back and see
  The strange vicissitudes of poetrie;
  Your aged fathers came to plays for wit,
  And sat knee-deep in nut-shells in the pit.

But while the public theatre continued long in this contracted state, without scenes, without
dresses, without an orchestra, the court displayed scenical and dramatic exhibitions with such
costly magnificence, such inventive fancy, and such miraculous art, that we may doubt if the
combined genius of Ben Jonson, Inigo Jones, and Lawes, or Ferobosco, at an era most favourable
to the arts of imagination, has been equalled by the modern spectacle of the Opera.

But this circumstance had entirely escaped the knowledge of our critics. The critic of a Masque
must not only have read it, but he must also have heard and have viewed it. The only witnesses
in this case are those letter-writers of the day, who were then accustomed to communicate such
domestic intelligence to their absent friends: from such ample correspondence I have often
drawn some curious and sometimes important information. It is amusing to notice the opinions
of some great critics, how from an original mis-statement they have drawn an illegitimate opinion,
and how one inherits from the other the error which he propagates. Warburton said on Masques,
that "Shakspeare was an enemy to these fooleries, as appears by his writing none." This opinion
was among the many which that singular critic threw out as they arose at the moment; for Warburton
forgot that Shakspeare characteristically introduces one in the Tempest's most fanciful scene.[3]
Granger, who had not much time to study the manners of the age whose personages he was so well
acquainted with, in a note on Milton's Masque, said that "these compositions were trifling
and perplexed allegories, the persons of which are fantastical to the last degree. Ben Jonson,
in his 'Masque of Christmas,' has introduced 'Minced Pie,' and 'Baby Cake,' who act their parts
in the drama.[4] But the most wretched performances of this kind could please by the help of
music, machinery, and dancing." Granger blunders, describing by two farcical characters a species
of composition of which farce was not the characteristic. Such personages as he notices would
enter into the Anti-masque, which was a humorous parody of the more solemn Masque, and sometimes
relieved it. Malone, whose fancy was not vivid, condemns Masques and the age of Masques, in
which, he says, echoing Granger's epithet, "the wretched taste of the times found amusement."
And lastly comes Mr. Todd, whom the splendid fragment of the "Arcades," and the entire Masque,
which we have by heart, could not warm; while his neutralising criticism fixes him at the freezing
point of the thermometer. "This dramatic entertainment, performed not without prodigious expense
in machinery and decoration, to which humour we certainly owe the entertainment of 'Arcades,'
and the inimitable Mask of 'Comus.'" Comus, however, is only a fine dramatic poem, retaining
scarcely any features of the Masque. The only modern critic who had written with some research
on this departed elegance of the English drama was Warton, whose fancy responded to the fascination
of the fairy-like magnificence and lyrical spirit of the Masque. Warton had the taste to give
a specimen from "The Inner Temple Mask by William Browne," the pastoral poet, whose Address
to Sleep, he observed, "reminds us of some favourite touches in Milton's Comus, to which it
perhaps gave birth." Yet even Warton was deficient in that sort of research which only can
discover the true nature of these singular dramas.

Such was the state in which, some years ago, I found all our knowledge of this once favourite
amusement of our court, our nobility, and our learned bodies of the four inns of court. Some
extensive researches, pursued among contemporary manuscripts, cast a new light over this obscure
child of fancy and magnificence. I could not think lightly of what Ben Jonson has called "The
Eloquence of Masques;" entertainments on which from three to five thousand pounds were expended,
and on more public occasions ten and twenty thousand. To the aid of the poetry, composed by
the finest poets, came the most skilful musicians and the most elaborate machinists; Ben Jonson,
and Inigo Jones,[5] and Lawes blended into one piece their respective genius; and Lord Bacon,
and Whitelocke, and Selden, who sat in committees for the last grand Masque presented to Charles
the First, invented the devices; composed the procession of the Masquers and the Anti-Masquers;
while one took the care of the dancing or the brawlers, and Whitelocke the music--the sage
Whitelocke! who has chronicled his self-complacency on this occasion, by claiming the invention
of a Coranto, which for thirty years afterwards was the delight of the nation, and was blessed
by the name of "Whitelocke's Coranto," and which was always called for, two or three times
over, whenever that great statesman "came to see a play!"[6] So much personal honour was considered
to be involved in the conduct of a Masque, that even this committee of illustrious men was
on the point of being broken up by too serious a discussion concerning precedence; and the
Masque had nearly not taken place, till they hit on the expedient of throwing dice to decide
on their rank in the procession! On this jealousy of honour in the composition of a Masque,
I discovered, what hitherto had escaped the knowledge, although not the curiosity, of literary
inquirers--the occasion of the memorable enmity between Ben Jonson and Inigo Jones, who had
hitherto acted together with brotherly affection; "a circumstance," says Gifford, to whom I
communicated it, "not a little important in the history of our calumniated poet." The trivial
cause, but not so in its consequences, was the poet prefixing his own name before that of the
architect on the title-page of a Masque, which hitherto had only been annexed;[7] so jealous
was the great architect of his part of the Masque, and so predominant his power and name at
court, that he considered his rights invaded by the inferior claims of the poet! Jonson has
poured out the whole bitterness of his soul in two short satires: still more unfortunately
for the subject of these satires, they provoked Inigo to sharpen his pen on rhyme; but it is
edgeless, and the blunt composition still lies in its manuscript state.

While these researches had engaged my attention, appeared Gifford's Memoirs of Ben Jonson.
The characteristics of Masques are there, for the first time, elaborately opened with the clear
and penetrating spirit of that ablest of our dramatic critics. I feel it like presumption to
add to what has received the finishing hand of a master; but his jewel is locked up in a chest,
which I fear is too rarely opened, and he will allow me to borrow something from its splendour.

"But in what," says Gifford, "was the taste of the times wretched? In poetry, painting, architecture,
they have not since been equalled; and it ill becomes us to arraign the taste of a period which
possessed a cluster of writers of whom the meanest would now be esteemed a prodigy." Malone
did not live to read this denouncement of his objection to these Masques, as "bungling shows;"
and which Warburton treats as "fooleries;" Granger as "wretched performances;" while Mr. Todd
regards them merely as "the humour of the times!"

Masques were often the private theatricals of the families of our nobility, performed by the
ladies and gentlemen at their seats; and were splendidly got up on certain occasions: such
as the celebration of a nuptial, or in compliment to some great visitor. The Masque of Comus
was composed by Milton to celebrate the creation of Charles the First as Prince of Wales; a
scene in this Masque presented both the castle and the town of Ludlow, which proves, that although
our small public theatres had not yet displayed any of the scenical illusions which long afterwards
Davenant introduced, these scenical effects existed in great perfection in the Masques. The
minute descriptions introduced by Thomas Campion, in his "Memorable Masque," as it is called,
will convince us that the scenery must have been exquisite and fanciful, and that the poet
was always a watchful and anxious partner with the machinist, with whom sometimes, however,
he had a quarrel.

The subject of this very rare Masque was "The Night and the Hours." It would be tedious to
describe the first scene with the fondness with which the poet has dwelt on it. It was a double
valley; one side, with dark clouds hanging before it; on the other, a green vale, with trees,
and nine golden ones of fifteen feet high; from which grove, towards "the State," or the seat
of the king, was a broad descent to the dancing-place: the bower of Flora was on the right,
the house of Night on the left; between them a hill, hanging like a cliff over the grove. The
bower of Flora was spacious, garnished with flowers and flowery branches, with lights among
them; the house of Night ample and stately, with black columns studded with golden stars; within,
nothing but clouds and twinkling stars; while about it were placed, on wire, artificial bats
and owls, continually moving. As soon as the king entered the great hall, the hautboys, out
of the wood on the top of the hill, entertained the time, till Flora and Zephyr were seen busily
gathering flowers from the bower, throwing them into baskets which two silvans held, attired
in changeable taffeta. The song is light as their fingers, but the burden is charming:--

  Now hath Flora robb'd her bowers
  To befriend this place with flowers;
    Strow about! strow about!
  Divers, divers flowers affect
  For some private dear respect;
    Strow about! strow about!
  But he's none of Flora's friend
  That will not the rose commend;
    Strow about! strow about!

I cannot quit this Masque, of which, collectors know the rarity, without preserving one of
those Doric delicacies, of which, perhaps, we have outlived the taste! It is a playful dialogue
between a Silvan and an Hour, while Night appears in her house, with her long black hair spangled
with gold, amidst her Hours; their faces black, and each bearing a lighted black torch.

  SILVAN. Tell me, gentle Hour of Night,
                   Wherein dost thou most delight?

  HOUR.   Not in sleep!

  SILVAN.                Wherein then?

  HOUR.    In the frolic view of men!

  SILVAN.  Lov'st thou music?

  HOUR.                    Oh! 'tis sweet!

  SILVAN.  What's dancing?

  HOUR.                   E'en the mirth of feet.

  SILVAN.  Joy you in fairies and in elves?

  HOUR.    We are of that sort ourselves!
           But, Silvan! say, why do you love
           Only to frequent the grove?

  SILVAN.  Life is fullest of content
           When delight is innocent.

  HOUR.    Pleasure must vary, not be long!
           Come then, let's close, and end the song! The architectural decorations were the pride
of Inigo Jones; such could not be trivial.

"I suppose," says the writer of this Masque, "few have ever seen more
neat artifice than Master Inigo Jones showed in contriving their motion;
who, as all the rest of the workmanship which belonged to the whole
invention, showed extraordinary industry and skill, which if it be not
as lively expressed in writing as it appeared in view, rob not him of
his due, but lay the blame on my want of right apprehending his
instructions, for the adoring of his art." Whether this strong
expression should be only adorning does not appear in any errata; but
the feeling of admiration was fervent among the spectators of that day,
who were at least as much astonished as they were delighted. Ben
Jonson's prose descriptions of scenes in his own exquisite Masques, as
Gifford observes, "are singularly bold and beautiful." In a letter which
I discovered, the writer of which had been present at one of these
Masques, and which Gifford has preserved,[11] the reader may see the
great poet anxiously united with Inigo Jones in working the machinery.
Jonson, before "a sacrifice could be performed, turned the globe of the
earth, standing behind the altar." In this globe "the sea was expressed
heightened with silver waves, which stood, or rather hung (for no axle
was seen to support it), and turning softly, discovered the first
Masque,"[12] &c. This "turning softly" producing a very magical effect,
the great poet would trust to no other hand but his own! I have sometimes caught a groan from
some unfortunate poet, whose beautiful fancies were spoilt by the
bungling machinist. One says, "The order of this scene was carefully
and ingeniously disposed, and as happily put in act (for the motions)
by the king's master carpenter;" but he adds, "the painters, I must
needs say (not to belie them), lent small colour to any, to attribute
much of the spirit of these things to their pencil." Campion, in one of
his Masques, describing where the trees were gently to sink, &c., by an
engine placed under the stage, and in sinking were to open, and the
masquers appear out at their tops, &c., adds this vindictive marginal
note: "Either by the simplicity, negligence, or conspiracy of the
painter, the passing away of the trees was somewhat hazarded, though
the same day they had been shown with much admiration, and were left
together to the same night;" that is, they were worked right at the
rehearsal, and failed in the representation, which must have perplexed
the nine masquers on the tops of these nine trees. But such accidents
were only vexations crossing the fancies of the poet: they did not
essentially injure the magnificence, the pomp, and the fairy world
opened to the spectators. So little was the character of these Masques
known, that all our critics seemed to have fallen into repeated
blunders, and used the Masques as Campion suspected his painters to have
done, "either by simplicity, negligence, or conspiracy." Hurd, a cold
systematic critic, thought he might safely prefer the Masque in the
Tempest, as "putting to shame all the Masques of Jonson, not only in
its construction, but in the splendour of its show;"--"which," adds
Gifford, "was danced and sung by the ordinary performers to a couple of
fiddles, perhaps in the balcony of the stage." Such is the fate of
criticism without knowledge! As late as the production of Davenant's
    Siege of Rhodes (circa 1656), this custom was continued, and is
    thus described in the printed edition of the play:--"In the middle
    of the frieze was a compartment wherein was written Rhodes." In
    many instances the spectator was left to infer the locality of the
    scene from the dialogue.--"Now," says Sidney, "you shall have three
    ladies walke to gather flowers, and then we must believe the stage
    to be a garden. By and by we heare newes of shipwracke in the same
    place; then we are to blame if we accept it not for a rock." In
    Middleton's Chaste Maid, 1630, when the scene changes to a
    bed-room, "a bed is thrust out upon the stage, Alwit's wife in it;"
    which simple process was effected by pushing it through the curtains
    that hung across the entrance to the stage, which at that time
    projected into the pit.

  [3] The play of Pyramus and Thisbe, performed by the clowns in
    Shakspeare's Midsummer Night's Dream, is certainly constructed in
    burlesque of characters in court Masques, which sometimes were as
    difficult to be made comprehensible to an audience as "the clowns of
    Athens" found Wall and Moonshine to be.

  [4] It is due to a great poet like Ben Jonson, that, without
    troubling the reader to turn to his works, we should give his own
    description of these characters, to show that they were not the
    "perplexed allegories" they are asserted to be by Granger; nor
    inappropriate to the Masque of Christmas, for which they were
    designed. BABY-CAKE was "drest
    like a boy, in a fine long coat, biggin-bib, muckender (or
    handkerchief), and a little dagger; his usher bearing a great cake,
    with a bean and a pease;" the latter being indicative of those
    generally inserted in a Christmas cake, which, when cut into slices
    and distributed, indicated by the presence of the bean the person
    who should be king; the slice with the pea doing the same for the
    queen. Neither of these characters speak, but make part of the show
    to be described by Father Christmas. Jonson's inventive talent was
    never more conspicuous than in the concoction of court Masques.

  [5] The first employment of these two great men was upon The Masque
    of Blackness, performed at Whitehall on Twelfth-Night, 1603; and
    which cost nearly 10,000l., of our present money.

  [6] The music of Whitelocke's Coranto is preserved in Hawkins's
    "History of Music." Might it be restored for the ladies as a waltz?

  [7] This was Chloridia, a Masque performed by the queen and her
    ladies at court, on Shrovetide, 1630; upon the title-page of which
    is printed "the inventors--Ben Jonson, Inigo Jones." Jonson was, by
    reason of the influence of Inigo, deprived of employ at court ever
    after, supplanted by other poets named by the architect, and among
    them Heywood, Shirley, and Davenant.

  [8] George Chapman's Memorable Maske, performed at Whitehall,
    1630, by the gentlemen of the Middle Temple and Lincoln's Inn, cost
    the latter society nearly 2000l. for their share of the expenses.

  [9] Ben Jonson records the names of the noble ladies and gentlemen
    who enacted his inventions at court.

  [10] The figures and actions of dancers in Masques were called motions.

  [11] Memoirs of Jonson, p. 88.

  [12] See Gifford's Jonson, vol. vii. p. 78. This performance was in
    the Masque of Hymen, enacted at court in 1605, on the occasion of
    the marriage of the Earl of Essex to the daughter of the Earl of
    Suffolk.

  [13] Splendour ultimately ruined these works; they ended in gaudy
    dresses and expensive machinery, but poetry was not associated with
    them. The youthful days of Louis XIV. raised them to a height of
    costly luxuriance to sink them ever after in oblivion.

OF DES MAIZEAUX, AND THE SECRET HISTORY OF ANTHONY COLLINS'S MANUSCRIPTS.

Des Maizeaux was an active literary man of his day, whose connexions with Bayle, St. Evremond,
Locke, and Toland, and his name being set off by an F.R.S., have occasioned the dictionary-biographers
to place him prominently among their "hommes illustres." Of his private history nothing seems
known. Having something important to communicate respecting one of his friends, a far greater
character, with whose fate he stands connected, even Des Maizeaux becomes an object of our inquiry.

He was one of those French refugees whom political madness or despair of intolerance had driven
to our shores. The proscription of Louis XIV., which supplied us with our skilful workers in
silk, also produced a race of the unemployed, who proved not to be as exquisite in the handicraft
of book-making; such were Motteux, La Coste, Ozell, Durand, and others. Our author had come
over in that tender state of youth, just in time to become half an Englishman: and he was so
ambidextrous in the languages of the two great literary nations of Europe, that whenever he
took up his pen, it is evident by his manuscripts, which I have examined, that it was mere
accident which determined him to write in French or in English. Composing without genius, or
even taste, without vivacity or force, the simplicity and fluency of his style were sufficient
for the purposes of a ready dealer in all the minutiæ literariæ; literary anecdotes, curious
quotations, notices of obscure books, and all that supellex which must enter into the history
of literature, without forming a history. These little things, which did so well of themselves,
without any connexion with anything else, became trivial when they assumed the form of voluminous
minuteness; and Des Maizeaux at length imagined that nothing but anecdotes were necessary to
compose the lives of men of genius! With this sort of talent he produced a copious life of
Bayle, in which he told everything he possibly could; and nothing can be more tedious, and
more curious: for though it be a grievous fault to omit nothing, and marks the writer to be
deficient in the development of character, and that sympathy which throws inspiration over
the vivifying page of biography, yet, to admit everything, has this merit--that we are sure
to find what we want!

Des Maizeaux was much in the employ of the Dutch booksellers, then the great monopolisers in
the literary mart of Europe. He supplied their "nouvelles littéraires" from England; but the
work-sheet price was very mean in those days. I have seen annual accounts of Des Maizeaux settled
to a line for four or five pounds; and yet he sent the "Novelties" as fresh as the post could
carry them! He held a confidential correspondence with these great Dutch booksellers, who consulted
him in their distresses; and he seems rather to have relieved them than himself. But if he
got only a few florins at Rotterdam, the same "nouvelles littéraires" sometimes secured him
valuable friends at London; for in those days, which perhaps are returning on us, an English
author would often appeal to a foreign journal for the commendation he might fail in obtaining
at home; and I have discovered, in more cases than one, that, like other smuggled commodities,
the foreign article was often of home manufactory!

I give one of these curious bibliopolical distresses. Sauzet, a bookseller at Rotterdam, who
judged too critically for the repose of his authors, seems to have been always fond of projecting
a new "Journal;" tormented by the ideal excellence which he had conceived of such a work, it
vexed him that he could never find the workmen! Once disappointed of the assistance he expected
from a writer of talents, he was fain to put up with one he was ashamed of; but warily stipulated
on very singular terms. He confided this precious literary secret to Des Maizeaux. I translate
from his manuscript letter.

"I send you, my dear Sir, four sheets of the continuation of my journal, and I hope this second
part will turn out better than the former. The author thinks himself a very able person; but
I must tell you frankly, that he is a man without erudition, and without any critical discrimination;
he writes pretty well, and turns passably what he says; but that is all! Monsieur Van Effen
having failed in his promises to realise my hopes on this occasion, necessity compelled me
to have recourse to him; but for six months only, and on condition that he should not, on any
account whatever, allow any one to know that he is the author of the journal; for his name
alone would be sufficient to make even a passable book discreditable. As you are among my friends,
I will confide to you in secrecy the name of this author; it is Mons. De Limiers.[14] You see
how much my interest is concerned that the author should not be known!" This anecdote is gratuitously
presented to the editors of certain reviews, as a serviceable hint to enter into the same engagement
with some of their own writers: for it is usually the De Limiers who expend their last puff
in blowing their own name about the town.

In England, Des Maizeaux, as a literary man, made himself very useful to other men of letters,
and particularly to persons of rank: and he found patronage and a pension,--like his talents,
very moderate! A friend to literary men, he lived amongst them, from "Orator" Henley, up to
Addison, Lord Halifax, and Anthony Collins. I find a curious character of our Des Maizeaux
in the handwriting of Edward, Earl of Oxford, to whose father (Pope's Earl of Oxford) and himself
the nation owes the Harleian treasures. His lordship is a critic with high Tory principles,
and high-church notions. "This Des Maizeaux is a great man with those who are pleased to be
called Freethinkers, particularly with Mr. Anthony Collins, collects passages out of books
for their writings. His Life of Chillingworth is wrote to please that set of men." The secret
history I am to unfold relates to Anthony Collins and Des Maizeaux. Some curious book-lovers
will be interested in the personal history of an author they are well acquainted with, yet
which has hitherto remained unknown. He tells his own story in a sort of epistolary petition
he addressed to a noble friend, characteristic of an author, who cannot be deemed unpatronised,
yet whose name, after all his painful labours, might be inserted in my "Calamities of Authors."

In this letter he announces his intention of publishing a Dictionary like Bayle; having written
the life of Bayle, the next step was to become himself a Bayle; so short is the passage of
literary delusion! He had published, as a specimen, the lives of Hales and Chillingworth. He
complains that his circumstances have not allowed him to forward that work, nor digest the
materials he had collected.

   A work of that nature requires a steady application, free from the
   cares and avocations incident to all persons obliged to seek for
   their maintenance. I have had the misfortune to be in the case of
   those persons, and am now reduced to a pension on the Irish
   establishment, which, deducting the tax of four shillings in the
   pound, and other charges, brings me in about 40l. a year of our
   English money.[15] This pension was granted to me in 1710, and I owe
   it chiefly to the friendship of Mr. Addison, who was then secretary
   to the Earl of Wharton, Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland. In 1711, 12, and
   14, I was appointed one of the Commissioners of the Lottery by the
   interest of Lord Halifax.

   And this is all I ever received from the Government, though I had
   some claim to the royal favour; for in 1710, when the enemies to our
   constitution were contriving its ruin, I wrote a pamphlet entitled
   "Lethe," which was published in Holland, and afterwards translated
   into English, and twice printed in London; and being reprinted in
   Dublin, proved so offensive to the ministry in Ireland, that it was
   burnt by the hands of the hangman. But so it is, that after having
   showed on all occasions my zeal for the royal family, and endeavoured
   to make myself serviceable to the public by several books published;
   after forty years' stay in England, and in an advanced age, I find
   myself and family destitute of a sufficient livelihood, and suffering
   from complaints in the head and impaired sight by constant
   application to my studies.

   I am confident, my lord, he adds, that if the queen, to whom I was
   made known on occasion of Thuanus's French translation, were
   acquainted with my present distress, she would be pleased to afford
   me some relief.[16]

Among the confidential literary friends of Des Maizeaux, he had the honour of ranking Anthony
Collins, a great lover of literature, and a man of fine genius, and who, in a continued correspondence
with our Des Maizeaux, treated him as his friend, and employed him as his agent in his literary
concerns. These, in the formation of an extensive library, were in a state of perpetual activity,
and Collins was such a true lover of his books, that he drew up the catalogue with his own
pen.[17] Anthony Collins wrote several well-known works without prefixing his name; but having
pushed too far his curious inquiries on some obscure and polemical points, he incurred the
odium of a freethinker,--a term which then began to be in vogue, and which the French adopted
by translating it, in their way, a strong thinker, or esprit fort. Whatever tendency to "liberalise"
the mind from dogmas and creeds prevails in these works, the talents and learning of Collins
were of the first class. His morals were immaculate, and his personal character independent;
but the odium theologicum of those days contrived every means to stab in the dark, till the
taste became hereditary with some. I shall mention a fact of this cruel bigotry, which occurred
within my own observation, on one of the most polished men of the age. The late Mr. Cumberland,
in the romance entitled his "Life," gave this extraordinary fact, that Dr. Bentley, who so
ably replied by his "Remarks," under the name of Phileleutherus Lipsiensis, to Collins's "Discourse
on Free-thinking," when, many years after, he discovered him fallen into great distress, conceiving
that by having ruined Collins's character as a writer for ever, he had been the occasion of
his personal misery, he liberally contributed to his maintenance. In vain I mentioned to that
elegant writer, who was not curious about facts, that this person could never have been Anthony
Collins, who had always a plentiful fortune; and when it was suggested to him that this "A.
Collins," as he printed it, must have been Arthur Collins, the historical compiler, who was
often in pecuniary difficulties, still he persisted in sending the lie down to posterity, totidem
verbis, without alteration in his second edition, observing to a friend of mine, that "the
story, while it told well, might serve as a striking instance of his great relative's generosity;
and that it should stand, because it could do no harm to any but to Anthony Collins, whom he
considered as little short of an atheist." So much for this pious fraud! but be it recollected
that this Anthony Collins was the confidential friend of Locke, of whom Locke said, on his
dying bed, that "Collins was a man whom he valued in the first rank of those that he left behind
him." And the last words of Collins on his own death-bed were, that "he was persuaded he was
going to that place which God had designed for them that love him." The cause of true religion
will never be assisted by using such leaky vessels as Cumberland's wilful calumnies, which
in the end must run out, and be found, like the present, mere empty fictions!

An extraordinary circumstance occurred on the death of Anthony Collins. He left behind him
a considerable number of his own manuscripts, there was one collection formed into eight octavo
volumes; and that they might be secured from the common fate of manuscripts, he bequeathed
them all, and confided them to the care of our Des Maizeaux. The choice of Collins reflects
honour on the character of Des Maizeaux, yet he proved unworthy of it! He suffered himself
to betray his trust, practised on by the earnest desire of the widow, and perhaps by the arts
of a Mr. Tomlinson, who appears to have been introduced into the family by the recommendation
of Dean Sykes, whom at length he supplanted, and whom the widow, to save her reputation, was
afterwards obliged to discard.[18] In an unguarded moment he relinquished this precious legacy
of the manuscripts, and accepted fifty guineas as a present. But if Des Maizeaux lost his honour
in this transaction, he was at heart an honest man, who had swerved for a single moment; his
conscience was soon awakened, and he experienced the most violent compunctions. It was in a
paroxysm of this nature that he addressed the following letter to a mutual friend of the late
Anthony Collins and himself.

   SIR,                                       January 6, 1730.

   I am very glad to hear you are come to town, and as you are my best
   friend, now I have lost Mr. Collins, give me leave to open my heart
   to you, and to beg your assistance in an affair which highly concerns
   both Mr. Collins's (your friend) and my own honour and reputation.
   The case, in few words, stands thus:--Mr. Collins by his last will
   and testament left me his manuscripts. Mr. Tomlinson, who first
   acquainted me with it, told me that Mrs. Collins should be glad to
   have them, and I made them over to her; whereupon she was pleased to
   present me with fifty guineas. I desired her at the same time to take
   care they should be kept safe and unhurt, which she promised to do.
   This was done the 25th of last month. Mr. Tomlinson, who managed all
   this affair, was present.

   Now, having further considered that matter, I find that I have done a
   most wicked thing. I am persuaded that I have betrayed the trust of a
   person who, for twenty-six years, had given me continual instances of
   his friendship and confidence. I am convinced that I have acted
   contrary to the will and intention of my dear deceased friend; showed
   a disregard to the particular mark of esteem he gave me on that
   occasion; in short, that I have forfeited what is dearer to me than
   my own life--honour and reputation.

   These melancholy thoughts have made so great an impression upon me,
   that I protest to you I can enjoy no rest; they haunt me everywhere,
   day and night. I earnestly beseech you, sir, to represent my unhappy
   case to Mrs. Collins. I acted with all the simplicity and uprightness
   of my heart; I considered that the MSS. would be as safe in Mrs.
   Collins's hands as in mine; that she was no less obliged to preserve
   them than myself; and that, as the library was left to her, they
   might naturally go along with it. Besides, I thought I could not too
   much comply with the desire of a lady to whom I have so many
   obligations. But I see now clearly that this is not fulfilling Mr.
   Collins's will, and that the duties of our conscience are superior to
   all other regards. But it is in her power to forgive and mend what I
   have done imprudently, but with a good intention. Her high sense of
   virtue and generosity will not, I am sure, let her take any advantage
   of my weakness; and the tender regard she has for the memory of the
   best of men, and the tenderest of husbands, will not suffer that his
   intentions should be frustrated, and that she should be the
   instrument of violating what is most sacred. If our late friend had
   designed that his MSS. should remain in her hands, he would certainly
   have left them to her by his last will and testament; his acting
   otherwise is an evident proof that it was not his intention.

   All this I proposed to represent to her in the most respectful
   manner; but you will do it infinitely better than I can in this
   present distraction of mind; and I flatter myself that the mutual
   esteem and friendship which has continued so many years between Mr.
   Collins and you, will make you readily embrace whatever tends to
   honour his memory.

   I send you the fifty guineas I received, which I do now look upon as
   the wages of iniquity; and I desire you to return them to Mrs.
   Collins, who, as I hope it of her justice, equity, and regard to Mr.
   Collins's intentions, will be pleased to cancel my paper.

     I am, &c.,

       P. DES MAIZEAUX.

The manuscripts were never returned to Des Maizeaux; for seven years afterwards Mrs. Collins,
who appears to have been a very spirited lady, addressed to him the following letter on the
subject of a report, that she had permitted transcripts of these very manuscripts to get abroad.
This occasioned an animated correspondence from both sides.

   SIR,                                       March 10, 1736-37.

   I have thus long waited in expectation that you would ere this have
   called on Dean Sykes, as Sir B. Lucy said you intended, that I might
   have had some satisfaction in relation to a very unjust
   reproach--viz., that I, or somebody that I had trusted, had
   betrayed some of the transcripts, or MSS., of Mr. Collins into the
   Bishop of London's hands. I cannot, therefore, since you have not
   been with the dean as was desired, but call on you in this manner, to
   know what authority you had for such a reflection; or on what grounds
   you went for saying that these transcripts are in the Bishop of
   London's hands. I am determined to trace out the grounds of such a
   report; and you can be no friend of mine, no friend of Mr. Collins,
   no friend to common justice, if you refuse to acquaint me, what
   foundation you had for such a charge. I desire a very speedy answer
   to this, who am, Sir,

     Your servant,

       ELIZ. COLLINS.

   To Mr. Des Maizeaux, at his lodgings next door to the Quakers'
   burying-ground, Hanover-street, out of Long-Acre.

   TO MRS. COLLINS.

                                              March 14, 1737.

   I had the honour of your letter of the 10th inst., and as I find that
   something has been misapprehended, I beg leave to set this matter
   right.

   Being lately with some honourable persons, I told them it had been
   reported that some of Mr. C.'s MSS. were fallen into the hands of
   strangers, and that I should be glad to receive from you such
   information as might enable me to disprove that report. What
   occasioned this surmise, or what particular MSS. were meant, I was
   not able to discover; so I was left to my own conjectures, which,
   upon a serious consideration, induced me to believe that it might
   relate to the MSS. in eight volumes in 8vo, of which there is a
   transcript. But as the original and the transcript are in your
   possession, if you please, madam, to compare them together, you may
   easily see whether they be both entire and perfect, or whether there
   be anything wanting in either of them. By this means you will assure
   yourself, and satisfy your friends, that several important pieces are
   safe in your hands, and that the report is false and groundless. All
   this I take the liberty to offer out of the singular respect I always
   professed for you, and for the memory of Mr. Collins, to whom I have
   endeavoured to do justice on all occasions, and particularly in the
   memoirs that have been made use of in the General Dictionary; and I
   hope my tender concern for his reputation will further appear when I
   publish his life.

   SIR,                                       April 6, 1737.

   My ill state of health has hindered me from acknowledging sooner the
   receipt of yours, from which I hoped for some satisfaction in
   relation to your charge, in which I cannot but think myself very
   deeply concerned. You tell me now, that you was left to your own
   conjectures what particular MSS. were reported to have fallen into
   the hands of strangers, and that upon a serious consideration you was
   induced to believe that it might relate to the MSS. in eight vols.
   8vo, of which there was a transcript.

   I must beg of you to satisfy me very explicitly who were the persons
   that reported this to you, and from whom did you receive this
   information? You know that Mr. Collins left several MSS. behind him;
   what grounds had you for your conjecture that it related to the MSS.
   in eight vols., rather than to any other MSS. of which there was a
   transcript? I beg that you will be very plain, and tell me what
   strangers were named to you; and why you said the Bishop of London,
   if your informer said stranger to you. I am so much concerned in
   this, that I must repeat it, if you have the singular respect for Mr.
   Collins which you profess, that you would help me to trace out this
   reproach, which is so abusive to, Sir,

     Your servant,

        ELIZ. COLLINS.

   TO MRS. COLLINS.

   I flattered myself that my last letter would have satisfied you, but
   I have the mortification to see that my hopes were vain. Therefore I
   beg leave once more to set this matter right. When I told you what
   had been reported, I acted, as I thought, the part of a true friend,
   by acquainting you that some of your MSS. had been purloined, in
   order that you might examine a fact which to me appeared of the last
   consequence; and I verily believe that everybody in my case would
   have expected thanks for such a friendly information. But instead of
   that I find myself represented as an enemy, and challenged to produce
   proofs and witnesses of a thing dropt in conversation, a hearsay, as
   if in those cases people kept a register of what they hear, and
   entered the names of the persons who spoke, the time, place, &c., and
   had with them persons ready to witness the whole, &c. I did own I
   never thought of such a thing, and whenever I happened to hear that
   some of my friends had some loss, I thought it my duty to acquaint
   them with such report, that they might inquire into the matter, and
   see whether there was any ground for it. But I never troubled myself
   with the names of the persons who spoke, as being a thing entirely
   needless and unprofitable.

   Give me leave further to observe, that you are in no ways concerned
   in the matter, as you seem to be apprehensive you are. Suppose some
   MSS. have been taken out of your library, who will say you ought to
   bear the guilt of it? What man in his senses, who has the honour to
   know you, will say you gave your consent to such thing--that you was
   privy to it? How can you then take upon yourself an action to which
   you was neither privy and consenting? Do not such things happen every
   day, and do the losers think themselves injured or abused when they
   are talked of? Is it impossible to be betrayed by a person we
   confided in?

   You call what I told you was a report, a surmise; you call it, I say,
   an information, and speak of informers as if there was a plot
   laid wherein I received the information: I thought I had the honour
   to be better known to you. Mr. Collins loved me and esteemed me for
   my integrity and sincerity, of which he had several proofs; how I
   have been drawn in to injure him, to forfeit the good opinion he had
   of me, and which, were he now alive, would deservedly expose me to
   his utmost contempt, is a grief which I shall carry to the grave. It
   would be a sort of comfort to me, if those who have consented I
   should be drawn in were in some measure sensible of the guilt towards
   so good, kind, and generous a man.

Thus we find that, seven years after Des Maizeaux had inconsiderately betrayed his sacred trust,
his remorse was still awake; and the sincerity of his grief is attested by the affecting style
which describes it: the spirit of his departed friend seemed to be hovering about him, and,
in his imagination, would haunt him to the grave.

The nature of these manuscripts; the cause of the earnest desire of retaining them by the widow;
the evident unfriendliness of her conduct to Des Maizeaux; and whether these manuscripts, consisting
of eight octavo volumes with their transcripts, were destroyed, or are still existing, are
all circumstances which my researches have hitherto not ascertained.

FOOTNOTES:

  [14] Van Effen was a Dutch writer of some merit, and one of a
    literary knot of ingenious men, consisting of Sallengre, St.
    Hyacinthe, Prosper Marchand, &c., who carried on a smart review for
    those days, published at the Hague under the title of "Journal
    Littéraire." They all composed in French; and Van Effen gave the
    first translations of our "Guardian," "Robinson Crusoe," and the
    "Tale of a Tub," &c. He did something more, but not better; he
    attempted to imitate the "Spectator," in his "Le Misanthrope," 1726,
    which exhibits a picture of the uninteresting manners of a nation
    whom he could not make very lively.

    De Limiers has had his name slipped into our biographical
    dictionaries. An author cannot escape the fatality of the alphabet;
    his numerous misdeeds are registered. It is said, that if he had not
    been so hungry, he would have given proofs of possessing some
    talent.

  [15] I find that the nominal pension was 3s. 6d. per diem on the
    Irish civil list, which amounts to above 63l. per annum. If a
    pension be granted for reward, it seems a mockery that the income
    should be so grievously reduced, which cruel custom still prevails.

  [16] This letter, or petition, was written in 1732. In 1743 he
    procured his pension to be placed on his wife's life, and he died in
    1745.

    He was sworn in as gentleman of his majesty's privy chamber in
    1722--Sloane MSS. 4289.

  [17] There is a printed catalogue of his library.

  [18] This information is from a note found among Des Maizeaux's
    papers; but its truth I have no means to ascertain.

HISTORY OF NEW WORDS.

Neology, or the novelty of words and phrases, is an innovation, which, with the opulence of
our present language, the English philologer is most jealous to allow; but we have puritans
or precisians of English, superstitiously nice! The fantastic coinage of affectation or caprice
will cease to circulate from its own alloy; but shall we reject the ore of fine workmanship
and solid weight? There is no government mint of words, and it is no statutable offence to
invent a felicitous or daring expression unauthorised by Mr. Todd! When a man of genius, in
the heat of his pursuits or his feelings, has thrown out a peculiar word, it probably conveyed
more precision or energy than any other established word, otherwise he is but an ignorant pretender!

Julius Cæsar, who, unlike other great captains, is authority on words as well as about blows,
wrote a large treatise on "Analogy," in which that fine genius counselled to "avoid every unusual
word as a rock!"[19] The cautious Quintilian, as might be expected, opposes all innovation
in language. "If the new word is well received, small is the glory; if rejected, it raises
laughter."[20] This only marks the penury of his feelings in this species of adventure. The
great legislator of words, who lived when his own language was at its acmé, seems undecided,
yet pleaded for this liberty. "Shall that which the Romans allowed to Cæcilius and to Plautus
be refused to Virgil and Varius?" The answer to the question might not be favourable to the
inquirer. While a language is forming, writers are applauded for extending its limits; when
established, for restricting themselves to them. But this is to imagine that a perfect language
can exist!

  If you write of things abstruse or new,
  Some of your own inventing may be used,
  So it be seldom and discreetly done.

    ROSCOMMON.

But Horace's canon for deciding on the legality of the new invention, or the standard by which
it is to be tried, will not serve to assist the inventor of words:--

                ----licuit, semperque licebit,
  Signatum præsente nota procudere nummum.[21]

This præsens nota, or public stamp, can never be affixed to any new coinage of words: for many
received at a season have perished with it.[22] The privilege of stamping words is reserved
for their greatest enemy--Time itself! and the inventor of a new word must never flatter himself
that he has secured the public adoption, for he must lie in his grave before he can enter the
dictionary.

In Willes' address to the reader, prefixed to the collection of Voyages published in 1577,
he finds fault with Eden's translation from Peter Martyr, for using words that "smelt too much
of the Latine." We should scarcely have expected to find among them ponderouse, portentouse,
despicable, obsequious, homicide, imbibed, destructive, prodigious. The only words he quotes,
not thoroughly naturalised, are dominators, ditionaries, (subjects), solicitute (careful).

The Tatler, No. 230, introduces several polysyllables introduced by military narrations, "which
(he says), if they attack us too frequently, we shall certainly put them to flight, and cut
off the rear;" every one of them still keep their ground.

Half the French words used affectedly by Melantha, in Dryden's Marriage à-la-Mode, as innovations
in our language, are now in common use, naïveté, foible, chagrin, grimace, embarras, double
entendre, equivoque, eclaircissement, ridicule, all these words, which she learns by heart
to use occasionally, are now in common use. A Dr. Russel called Psalm-singers Ballad-singers,
having found the Song of Solomon in an old translation, the Ballad of Ballads, for which he
is reproached by his antagonist for not knowing that the signification of words alters with
time; should I call him knave, he ought not to be concerned at it, for the Apostle Paul is
also called a knave of Jesus Christ.[23]

Unquestionably, NEOLOGY opens a wide door to innovation; scarcely has a century passed since
our language was patched up with Gallic idioms, as in the preceding century it was piebald
with Spanish, and with Italian, and even with Dutch. The political intercourse of islanders
with their neighbours has ever influenced their language. In Elizabeth's reign Italian phrases[24]
and Netherland words were imported; in James and Charles the Spanish framed the style of courtesy;
in Charles the Second the nation and the language were equally Frenchified. Yet such are the
sources from whence we have often derived some of the wealth of our language!

There are three foul corruptors of a language: caprice, affectation, and ignorance! Such fashionable
cant terms as "theatricals," and "musicals," invented by the flippant Topham, still survive
among his confraternity of frivolity. A lady eminent for the elegance of her taste, and of
whom one of the best judges, the celebrated Miss Edgeworth, observed to me, that she spoke
the purest and most idiomatic English she had ever heard, threw out an observation which might
be extended to a great deal of our present fashionable vocabulary. She is now old enough, she
said, to have lived to hear the vulgarisms of her youth adopted in drawing-room circles.[25]
To lunch, now so familiar from the fairest lips, in her youth was only known in the servants'
hall. An expression very rife of late among our young ladies, a nice man, whatever it may mean,
whether that the man resemble a pudding or something more nice, conveys the offensive notion
that they are ready to eat him up! When I was a boy, it was an age of bon ton; this good tone
mysteriously conveyed a sublime idea of fashion; the term, imported late in the eighteenth
century, closed with it. Twaddle for a while succeeded bore; but bore has recovered the supremacy.
We want another Swift to give a new edition of his "Polite Conversation." A dictionary of barbarisms
too might be collected from some wretched neologists, whose pens are now at work! Lord Chesterfield,
in his exhortations to conform to Johnson's Dictionary, was desirous, however, that the great
lexicographer should add as an appendix, "A neological dictionary, containing those polite,
though perhaps not strictly grammatical, words and phrases commonly used, and sometimes understood
by the beau-monde."[26] This last phrase was doubtless a contribution! Such a dictionary had
already appeared in the French language, drawn up by two caustic critics, who in the Dictionnaire
néologique à l'usage des beaux Esprits du Siècle collected together the numerous unlucky inventions
of affectation, with their modern authorities! A collection of the fine words and phrases,
culled from some very modern poetry, might show the real amount of the favours bestowed on us.

The attempts of neologists are, however, not necessarily to be condemned; and we may join with
the commentators of Aulus Gellius, who have lamented the loss of a chapter of which the title
only has descended to us. That chapter would have demonstrated what happens to all languages,
that some neologisms, which at first are considered forced or inelegant, become sanctioned
by use, and in time are quoted as authority in the very language which, in their early stage,
they were imagined to have debased.

The true history of men's minds is found in their actions; their wants are indicated by their
contrivances; and certain it is that in highly cultivated ages we discover the most refined
intellects attempting NEOLOGISMS.[27] It would be a subject of great curiosity to trace the
origin of many happy expressions, when, and by whom created. Plato substituted the term Providence
for fate; and a new system of human affairs arose from a single word. Cicero invented several;
to this philosopher we owe the term of moral philosophy, which before his time was called the
philosophy of manners. But on this subject we are perhaps more interested by the modern than
by the ancient languages. Richardson, the painter of the human heart, has coined some expressions
to indicate its little secret movements, which are admirable: that great genius merited a higher
education and more literary leisure than the life of a printer could afford. Montaigne created
some bold expressions, many of which have not survived him; his incuriosité, so opposite to
curiosity, well describes that state of negligence where we will not learn that of which we
are ignorant. With us the word incurious was described by Heylin, 1656, as an unusual word;
it has been appropriately adopted by our best writers, although we still want incuriosity.
Charron invented étrangeté unsuccessfully, but which, says a French critic, would be the true
substantive of the word étrange; our Locke is the solitary instance produced for "foreignness"
for "remoteness or want of relation to something." Malherbe borrowed from the Latin, insidieux,
sécurité, which have been received; but a bolder word, dévouloir, by which he proposed to express
cesser de vouloir, has not. A term, however, expressive and precise. Corneille happily introduced
invaincu in a verse in the Cid,

  Vous êtes invaincu, mais non pas invincible.

Yet this created word by their great poet has not sanctioned this fine distinction among the
French, for we are told that it is almost a solitary instance. Balzac was a great inventor
of neologisms. Urbanité and féliciter were struck in his mint. "Si le mot féliciter n'est pas
française, il le sera l'année qui vient;" so confidently proud was the neologist, and it prospered
as well as urbanité, of which he says, "Quand l'usage aura muri parmi nous un mot de si mauvais
gout, et corrigé l'amertume de la nouveauté qui s'y peut trouver, nous nous y accoutumerons
comme aux autres que nous avons emprunté de la même langue." Balzac was, however, too sanguine
in some other words; for his délecter, his sériosité, &c. still retain their "bitterness of
novelty."

Menage invented a term of which an equivalent is wanting in our language; "J'ai fait prosateur
à l'imitation de l'italien prosatore, pour dire un homme qui écrit en prose." To distinguish
a prose from a verse writer, we once had "a proser." Drayton uses it; but this useful distinction
has unluckily degenerated, and the current sense is so daily urgent, that the purer sense is
irrecoverable.

When D'Albancourt was translating Lucian, he invented in French the words indolence and indolent,
to describe a momentary languor, rather than that habitual indolence in which sense they are
now accepted; and in translating Tacitus, he created the word turbulemment; but it did not
prosper any more than that of temporisement. Segrais invented the word impardonnable, which,
after having been rejected, was revived, and is equivalent to our expressive unpardonable.
Molière ridiculed some neologisms of the Précieuses of his day; but we are too apt to ridicule
that which is new, and which we often adopt when it becomes old. Molière laughed at the term
s'encanailler, to describe one who assumed the manners of a blackguard; the expressive word
has remained in the language. The meaning is disputed as well as the origin is lost of some
novel terms. This has happened to a word in daily use--Fudge! It is a cant term not in Grose,
and only traced by Todd not higher than to Goldsmith. It is, however, no invention of his.
In a pamphlet, entitled "Remarks upon the Navy," 1700, the term is declared to have been the
name of a certain nautical personage who had lived in the lifetime of the writer. "There was,
sir, in our time, one Captain Fudge, commander of a merchantman, who upon his return from a
voyage, how ill-fraught soever his ship was, always brought home his owners a good cargo of
lies; so much that now, aboard ship, the sailors, when they hear a great lie told, cry out,
'You fudge it!'" It is singular that such an obscure byword among sailors should have become
one of the most popular in our familiar style; and not less, that recently at the bar, in a
court of law, its precise meaning perplexed plaintiff and defendant and their counsel. I think
it does not signify mere lies, but bouncing lies, or rhodomontades.

There are two remarkable French words created by the Abbé de Saint Pierre, who passed his meritorious
life in the contemplation of political morality and universal benevolence--bienfaisance and
gloriole. He invented gloriole as a contemptuous diminutive of glorie; to describe that vanity
of some egotists, so proud of the small talents which they may have received from nature or
from accident. Bienfaisance first appeared in this sentence: "L'Esprit de la vraie religion
et le principal but de l'evangile c'est la bienfaisance, c'est-à-dire la pratique de la charité
envers le prochain." This word was so new, that in the moment of its creation this good man
explained its necessity and origin. Complaining that "the word 'charity' is abused by all sorts
of Christians in the persecution of their enemies, and even heretics affirm that they are practising
Christian charity in persecuting other heretics, I have sought for a term which might convey
to us a precise idea of doing good to our neighbours, and I can form none more proper to make
myself understood than the term of bienfaisance, good-doing. Let those who like, use it; I
would only be understood, and it is not equivocal." The happy word was at first criticised,
but at length every kind heart found it responded to its own feeling. Some verses from Voltaire,
alluding to the political reveries of the good abbé, notice the critical opposition; yet the
new word answered to the great rule of Horace.

  Certain législateur, dont la plume féconde
  Fit tant de vains projets pour le bien du monde,
  Et qui depuis trente ans écrit pour des ingrats,
  Vient de créer un mot qui manque à Vaugelas:
  Ce mot est BIENFAISANCE; il me plaît, il rassemble
  Si le coeur en est cru, bien des vertus ensemble.
  Petits grammairiens, grands précepteurs de sots,
  Qui pesez la parole et mesurez les mots,
  Pareille expression vous semble hazardée,
  Mais l'univers entier doit en cherir l'idée!

The French revolutionists, in their rage for innovation, almost barbarised the pure French
of the Augustan age of their literature, as they did many things which never before occurred;
and sometimes experienced feelings as transitory as they were strange. Their nomenclature was
copious; but the revolutionary jargon often shows the danger and the necessity of neologisms.
They form an appendix to the Academy Dictionary. Our plain English has served to enrich this
odd mixture of philology and politics: Club, clubiste, comité, jure, juge de paix, blend with
their terrorisme, lanterner, a verb active, lévee en masse, noyades, and the other verb active,
septembriser, &c. The barbarous term demoralisation is said to have been the invention of the
horrid capuchin Chabot; and the remarkable expression of arrière pensée belonged exclusively
in its birth to the jesuitic astuteness of the Abbé Sieyes, that political actor, who, in changing
sides, never required prompting in his new part!

A new word, the result of much consideration with its author, or a term which, though unknown
to the language, conveys a collective assemblage of ideas by a fortunate designation, is a
precious contribution of genius; new words should convey new ideas. Swift, living amidst a
civil war of pamphlets, when certain writers were regularly employed by one party to draw up
replies to the other, created a term not to be found in our dictionaries, but which, by a single
stroke, characterises these hirelings; he called them answer-jobbers. We have not dropped the
fortunate expression from any want of its use, but of perception in our lexicographers. The
celebrated Marquis of Lansdowne introduced a useful word, which has of late been warmly adopted
in France as well as in England--to liberalise; the noun has been drawn out of the verb--for
in the marquis's time that was only an abstract conception which is now a sect; and to liberalise
was theoretically introduced before the liberals arose.[28] It is curious to observe that as
an adjective it had formerly in our language a very opposite meaning to its recent one. It
was synonymous with "libertine or licentious;" we have "a liberal villain" and "a most profane
and liberal counsellor;" we find one declaring "I have spoken too liberally." This is unlucky
for the liberals, who will not--

  Give allowance to our liberal jests
  Upon their persons--

     BEAUMONT AND FLETCHER.

Dr. Priestley employed a forcible, but not an elegant term, to mark the general information
which had begun in his day; this he frequently calls "the spread of knowledge." Burke attempted
to brand with a new name that set of pert, petulant, sophistical sciolists, whose philosophy
the French, since their revolutionary period, have distinguished as philosophism, and the philosophers
themselves as philosophistes. He would have designated them as literators, but few exotic words
will circulate; new words must be the coinage of our own language to blend with the vernacular
idiom. Many new words are still wanted. We have no word by which we could translate the otium
of the Latins, the dillettante of the Italians, the alembiqué of the French, as an epithet
to describe that sublimated ingenuity which exhausts the mind, till, like the fusion of the
diamond, the intellect itself disappears. A philosopher, in an extensive view of a subject
in all its bearings, may convey to us the result of his last considerations by the coinage
of a novel and significant expression, as this of Professor Dugald Stewart--political religionism.
Let me claim the honour of one pure neologism. I ventured to introduce the term of FATHER-LAND
to describe our natale solum; I have lived to see it adopted by Lord Byron and by Mr. Southey,
and the word is now common. A lady has even composed both the words and the air of a song on
"Father-land." This energetic expression may therefore be considered as authenticated; and
patriotism may stamp it with its glory and its affection. FATHER-LAND is congenial with the
language in which we find that other fine expression MOTHER-TONGUE. The patriotic neologism
originated with me in Holland, when, in early life, it was my daily pursuit to turn over the
glorious history of its independence under the title of Vaderlandsche Historie--the history
of FATHER-LAND!

If we acknowledge that the creation of some neologisms may sometimes produce the beautiful,
the revival of the dead is the more authentic miracle; for a new word must long remain doubtful,
but an ancient word happily recovered rests on a basis of permanent strength; it has both novelty
and authority. A collection of picturesque words, found among our ancient writers, would constitute
a precious supplement to the history of our language. Far more expressive than our term of
executioner is their solemn one of the deathsman; than our vagabond, their scatterling; than
our idiot or lunatic, their moonling,--a word which, Mr. Gifford observes, should not have
been suffered to grow obsolete. Herrick finely describes by the term pittering the peculiar
shrill and short cry of the grasshopper: the cry of the grasshopper is pit! pit! pit! quickly
repeated. Envy "dusking the lustre" of genius is a verb lost for us, but which gives a more
precise expression to the feeling than any other words which we could use.

The late Dr. Boucher, in the prospectus of his proposed Dictionary, did me the honour, then
a young writer, to quote an opinion I had formed early in life of the purest source of neology,
which is in the revival of old words.

  Words that wise Bacon or brave Rawleigh spake!

We have lost many exquisite and picturesque expressions through the dulness of our lexicographers,
or by the deficiency in that profounder study of our writers which their labours require far
more than they themselves know. The natural graces of our language have been impoverished.
The genius that throws its prophetic eye over the language, and the taste that must come from
Heaven, no lexicographer imagines are required to accompany him amidst a library of old books!

FOOTNOTES:

  [19] Aulus Gellius, lib. i. c. 10.

  [20] Instit. lib. i. c. 5.

  [21] This verse was corrected by Bentley procudere nummum, instead
    of producere nomen, which the critics agree is one of his happy
    conjectures.

  [22] Henry Cockeram's curious little "English Dictionarie, or an
    Interpretation of hard English words", 12mo, 1631, professes to give
    in its first book "the choicest words themselves now in use,
    wherewith our language is inriched and become so copious." Many have
    not survived, such as the following:--

      Acyrologicall    An improper speech.
      Adacted          Driven in by force.
      Blandiloquy      Flattering speech.
      Compaginate      To set together that which is broken.
      Concessation     Loytering.
      Delitigate       To scold, or chide vehemently.
      Depalmate        To give one a box on the ear.
      Esuriate         To hunger.
      Strenuitie       Activity.

    Curiously enough, this author notes some words as those "now out of
    use, and onely used of some ancient writers," but which we now
    commonly use. Such are the following:--

      Abandon          To forsake or cast off.
      Abate            To make lesse, diminish, or take from.

  [23] A most striking instance of the change of meaning in a word is
    in the old law-term let--"without let or hindrance;" meaning
    void of all opposition. Hence, "I will let you," meant "I will
    hinder you;" and not as we should now think, "I will give you free
    leave."

  [24] Shakspeare makes "Ancient Pistol" use a new-coined Italian
    word, when he speaks of being "better accommodated;" to the great
    delight of Justice Shallow, who exclaims, "It comes from
    accommodo--a good phrase!" And Ben Jonson, in his "Tale of a Tub,"
    ridicules Inigo Jones's love of two words he often used:--

                   ----If it conduce
      To the design, whate'er is feasible,
      I can express.

  [25] The term pluck, once only known to the prize-ring, has now
    got into use in general conversation, and also into literature, as a
    term indicative of ready courage.

  [26] Such terms as "patent to the public"--"normal
    condition"--"crass behaviour," are the inventions of the last few
    years.

  [27] Shakspeare has a powerfully-composed line in the speech of the
    Duke of Burgundy, (Henry V. Act v. Sc. 2), when, describing the
    fields overgrown with weeds, he exclaims--

                         ----The coulter rusts,
      That should deracinate such savagery.

  [28] The "Quarterly Review" recently marked the word liberalise in
    italics as a strange word, undoubtedly not aware of its origin. It
    has been lately used by Mr. Dugald Stewart, "to liberalise the
    views."--Dissert. 2nd part, p. 138.

THE PHILOSOPHY OF PROVERBS.

In antique furniture we sometimes discover a convenience which long disuse had made us unacquainted
with, and are surprised by the aptness which we did not suspect was concealed in its solid
forms. We have found the labour of the workmen to have been as admirable as the material itself,
which is still resisting the mouldering touch of time among those modern inventions, elegant
and unsubstantial, which, often put together with unseasoned wood, are apt to warp and fly
into pieces when brought into use. We have found how strength consists in the selection of
materials, and that, whenever the substitute is not better than the original, we are losing
something in that test of experience, which all things derive from duration.

Be this as it may! I shall not unreasonably await for the artists of our novelties to retrograde
into massive greatness, although I cannot avoid reminding them how often they revive the forgotten
things of past times! It is well known that many of our novelties were in use by our ancestors!
In the history of the human mind there is, indeed, a sort of antique furniture which I collect,
not merely for their antiquity, but for the sound condition in which I still find them, and
the compactness which they still show. Centuries have not worm-eaten their solidity! and the
utility and delightfulness which they still afford make them look as fresh and as ingenious
as any of our patent inventions.

By the title of the present article the reader has anticipated the nature of the old furniture
to which I allude. I propose to give what, in the style of our times, may be called the Philosophy
of Proverbs--a topic which seems virgin. The art of reading proverbs has not, indeed, always
been acquired even by some of their admirers; but my observations, like their subject, must
be versatile and unconnected; and I must bespeak indulgence for an attempt to illustrate a
very curious branch of literature, rather not understood than quite forgotten.

Proverbs have long been in disuse. "A man of fashion," observes Lord Chesterfield, "never has
recourse to proverbs and vulgar aphorisms;" and, since the time his lordship so solemnly interdicted
their use, they appear to have withered away under the ban of his anathema. His lordship was
little conversant with the history of proverbs, and would unquestionably have smiled on those
"men of fashion" of another stamp, who, in the days of Elizabeth, James, and Charles, were
great collectors of them; would appeal to them in their conversations, and enforce them in
their learned or their statesmanlike correspondence. Few, perhaps, even now, suspect that these
neglected fragments of wisdom, which exist among all nations, still offer many interesting
objects for the studies of the philosopher and the historian; and for men of the world still
open an extensive school of human life and manners.

The home-spun adages, and the rusty "sayed-saws," which remain in the mouths of the people,
are adapted to their capacities and their humours. Easily remembered, and readily applied,
these are the philosophy of the vulgar, and often more sound than that of their masters! whoever
would learn what the people think, and how they feel, must not reject even these as insignificant.
The proverbs of the street and of the market, true to nature, and lasting only because they
are true, are records that the populace at Athens and at Rome were the same people as at Paris
and at London, and as they had before been in the city of Jerusalem!

Proverbs existed before books. The Spaniards date the origin of their refranes que dicen las
viejas tras el fuego, "sayings of old wives by their firesides," before the existence of any
writings in their language, from the circumstance that these are in the old romance or rudest
vulgar idiom. The most ancient poem in the Edda, "the sublime speech of Odin," abounds with
ancient proverbs, strikingly descriptive of the ancient Scandinavians. Undoubtedly proverbs
in the earliest ages long served as the unwritten language of morality, and even of the useful
arts; like the oral traditions of the Jews, they floated down from age to age on the lips of
successive generations. The name of the first sage who sanctioned the saying would in time
be forgotten, while the opinion, the metaphor, or the expression, remained, consecrated into
a proverb! Such was the origin of those memorable sentences by which men learnt to think and
to speak appositely; they were precepts which no man could contradict, at a time when authority
was valued more than opinion, and experience preferred to novelty. The proverbs of a father
became the inheritance of a son; the mistress of a family perpetuated hers through her household;
the workman condensed some traditional secret of his craft into a proverbial expression. When
countries are not yet populous, and property has not yet produced great inequalities in its
ranks, every day will show them how "the drunkard and the glutton come to poverty, and drowsiness
clothes a man with rags." At such a period he who gave counsel gave wealth.

It might therefore have been decided, à priori, that the most homely proverbs would abound
in the most ancient writers--and such we find in Hesiod; a poet whose learning was not drawn
from books. It could only have been in the agricultural state that this venerable bard could
have indicated a state of repose by this rustic proverb:--

  [Greek: Pêdalion men uper kapnou katadeio]
  Hang your plough-beam o'er the hearth!

The envy of rival workmen is as justly described by a reference to the humble manufacturers
of earthenware as by the elevated jealousies of the literati and the artists of a more polished
age. The famous proverbial verse in Hesiod's Works and Days--

  [Greek: Kai kerameus keramei koteei],

is literally, "The potter is hostile to the potter!"

The admonition of the poet to his brother, to prefer a friendly accommodation to a litigious
lawsuit, has fixed a paradoxical proverb often applied,--

  [Greek: Pleon êmisu pantos],
  The half is better than the whole!

In the progress of time, the stock of popular proverbs received accessions from the highest
sources of human intelligence; as the philosophers of antiquity formed their collections, they
increased in "weight and number." Erasmus has pointed out some of these sources, in the responses
of oracles; the allegorical symbols of Pythagoras; the verses of the poets; allusions to historical
incidents; mythology and apologue; and other recondite origins. Such dissimilar matters, coming
from all quarters, were melted down into this vast body of aphoristic knowledge. Those "WORDS
OF THE WISE and their DARK SAYINGS," as they are distinguished in that large collection which
bears the name of the great Hebrew monarch, at length seem to have required commentaries; for
what else can we infer of the enigmatic wisdom of the sages, when the royal paroemiographer
classes among their studies, that of "understanding a proverb and the interpretation?" This
elevated notion of "the dark sayings of the wise" accords with the bold conjecture of their
origin which the Stagyrite has thrown out, who considered them as the wrecks of an ancient
philosophy which had been lost to mankind by the fatal revolutions of all human things, and
that those had been saved from the general ruin by their pithy elegance and their diminutive
form; like those marine shells found on the tops of mountains, the relics of the Deluge! Even
at a later period, the sage of Cheronea prized them among the most solemn mysteries; and Plutarch
has described them in a manner which proverbs may even still merit: "Under the veil of these
curious sentences are hid those germs of morals which the masters of philosophy have afterwards
developed into so many volumes."

At the highest period of Grecian genius, the tragic and the comic poets introduced into their
dramas the proverbial style. St. Paul quotes a line which still remains among the first exercises
of our school-pens:--

  Evil communications corrupt good manners.

It is a verse found in a fragment of Menander the comic poet:

  [Greek: Phtheirousin hêthê chrêsth' homiliai kakai].

As this verse is a proverb, and the apostle, and indeed the highest authority, Jesus himself,
consecrates the use of proverbs by their occasional application, it is uncertain whether St.
Paul quotes the Grecian poet, or only repeats some popular adage. Proverbs were bright shafts
in the Greek and Latin quivers; and when Bentley, by a league of superficial wits, was accused
of pedantry for his use of some ancient proverbs, the sturdy critic vindicated his taste by
showing that Cicero constantly introduced Greek proverbs into his writings,--that Scaliger
and Erasmus loved them, and had formed collections drawn from the stores of antiquity.

Some difficulty has occurred in the definition. Proverbs must be distinguished from proverbial
phrases, and from sententious maxims; but as proverbs have many faces, from their miscellaneous
nature, the class itself scarcely admits of any definition. When Johnson defined a proverb
to be "a short sentence frequently repeated by the people," this definition would not include
the most curious ones, which have not always circulated among the populace, nor even belong
to them; nor does it designate the vital qualities of a proverb. The pithy quaintness of old
Howell has admirably described the ingredients of an exquisite proverb to be sense, shortness,
and salt. A proverb is distinguished from a maxim or an apophthegm by that brevity which condenses
a thought or a metaphor, where one thing is said and another is to be applied. This often produces
wit, and that quick pungency which excites surprise, but strikes with conviction; this gives
it an epigrammatic turn. George Herbert entitled the small collection which he formed "Jacula
Prudentium," Darts or Javelins! something hurled and striking deeply; a characteristic of a
proverb which possibly Herbert may have borrowed from a remarkable passage in Plato's dialogue
of "Protagoras or the Sophists."

The influence of proverbs over the minds and conversations of a whole people is strikingly
illustrated by this philosopher's explanation of the term to laconise,--the mode of speech
peculiar to the Lacedæmonians. This people affected to appear unlearned, and seemed only emulous
to excel the rest of the Greeks in fortitude and in military skill. According to Plato's notion,
this was really a political artifice, with a view to conceal their pre-eminent wisdom. With
the jealousy of a petty state, they attempted to confine their renowned sagacity within themselves,
and under their military to hide their contemplative character! The philosopher assures those
who in other cities imagined they laconised, merely by imitating the severe exercises and the
other warlike manners of the Lacedæmonians, that they were grossly deceived; and thus curiously
describes the sort of wisdom which this singular people practised.

"If any one wish to converse with the meanest of the Lacedæmonians, he will at first find him,
for the most part, apparently despicable in conversation; but afterwards, when a proper opportunity
presents itself, this same mean person, like a skilful jaculator, will hurl a sentence, worthy
of attention, short and contorted; so that he who converses with him will appear to be in no
respect superior to a boy! That to laconise, therefore, consists much more in philosophising
than in the love of exercise, is understood by some of the present age, and was known to the
ancients, they being persuaded that the ability of uttering such sentences as these is the
province of a man perfectly learned. The seven sages were emulators, lovers, and disciples
of the Lacedæmonian erudition. Their wisdom was a thing of this kind, viz. short sentences
uttered by each, and worthy to be remembered. These men, assembling together, consecrated to
Apollo the first fruits of their wisdom; writing in the Temple of Apollo, at Delphi, those
sentences which are celebrated by all men, viz. Know thyself! and Nothing too much! But on
what account do I mention these things? To show that the mode of philosophy among the ancients
was a certain laconic diction."[29]

The "laconisms" of the Lacedæmonians evidently partook of the proverbial style: they were,
no doubt, often proverbs themselves. The very instances which Plato supplies of this "laconising"
are two most venerable proverbs.

All this elevates the science of PROVERBS, and indicates that these abridgments of knowledge
convey great results, with a parsimony of words prodigal of sense. They have, therefore, preserved
many "a short sentence, NOT repeated by the people."

It is evident, however, that the earliest writings of every people are marked by their most
homely, or domestic proverbs; for these were more directly addressed to their wants. Franklin,
who may be considered as the founder of a people who were suddenly placed in a stage of civil
society which as yet could afford no literature, discovered the philosophical cast of his genius,
when he filled his almanacs with proverbs, by the ingenious contrivance of framing them into
a connected discourse, delivered by an old man attending an auction. "These proverbs," he tells
us, "which contained the wisdom of many ages and nations, when their scattered counsels were
brought together, made a great impression. They were reprinted in Britain, in a large sheet
of paper, and stuck up in houses: and were twice translated in France, and distributed among
their poor parishioners." The same occurrence had happened with us ere we became a reading
people. Sir Thomas Elyot, in the reign of Henry the Eighth, describing the ornaments of a nobleman's
house, among his hangings, and plate, and pictures, notices the engraving of proverbs "on his
plate and vessels, which served the guests with a most opportune counsel and comments." Later
even than the reign of Elizabeth our ancestors had proverbs always before them, on everything
that had room for a piece of advice on it; they had them painted in their tapestries, stamped
on the most ordinary utensils, on the blades of their knives,[30] the borders of their plates,[31]
and "conned them out of goldsmiths' rings."[32] The usurer, in Robert Greene's "Groat's worth
of Wit," compressed all his philosophy into the circle of his ring, having learned sufficient
Latin to understand the proverbial motto of "Tu tibi cura!" The husband was reminded of his
lordly authority when he only looked into his trencher, one of its learned aphorisms having
descended to us,--

  The calmest husbands make the stormiest wives.

The English proverbs of the populace, most of which are still in circulation, were collected
by old John Heywood.[33] They are arranged by Tusser for "the parlour--the guest's chamber--the
hall--table-lessons," &c. Not a small portion of our ancient proverbs were adapted to rural
life, when our ancestors lived more than ourselves amidst the works of God, and less among
those of men.[34] At this time, one of our old statesmen, in commending the art of compressing
a tedious discourse into a few significant phrases, suggested the use of proverbs in diplomatic
intercourse, convinced of the great benefit which would result to the negotiators themselves,
as well as to others! I give a literary curiosity of this kind. A member of the House of Commons,
in the reign of Elizabeth, made a speech entirely composed of the most homely proverbs. The
subject was a bill against double payments of book-debts. Knavish tradesmen were then in the
habit of swelling out their book-debts with those who took credit, particularly to their younger
customers. One of the members who began to speak "for very fear shook," and stood silent. The
nervous orator was followed by a blunt and true representative of the famed governor of Barataria,
delivering himself thus--"It is now my chance to speak something, and that without humming
or hawing. I think this law is a good law. Even reckoning makes long friends. As far goes the
penny as the penny's master. Vigilantibus non dormientibus jura subveniunt. Pay the reckoning
overnight and ye shall not be troubled in the morning. If ready money be mensura publica, let
every one cut his coat according to his cloth. When his old suit is in the wane, let him stay
till that his money bring a new suit in the increase."[35]

Another instance of the use of proverbs among our statesmen occurs in a manuscript letter of
Sir Dudley Carlton, written in 1632, on the impeachment of Lord Middlesex, who, he says, is
"this day to plead his own cause in the Exchequer-chamber, about an account of four-score thousand
pounds laid to his charge. How his lordship sped I know not, but do remember well the French
proverb, Qui mange de l'oy du Roy chiera une plume quarante ans après. 'Who eats of the king's
goose, will void a feather forty years after!'"

This was the era of proverbs with us; for then they were spoken by all ranks of society. The
free use of trivial proverbs got them into disrepute; and as the abuse of a thing raises a
just opposition to its practice, a slender wit affecting "a cross humour," published a little
volume of "Crossing of Proverbs, Cross-answers, and Cross-humours." He pretends to contradict
the most popular ones; but he has not always the genius to strike at amusing paradoxes.[36]

Proverbs were long the favourites of our neighbours; in the splendid and refined court of Louis
the Fourteenth they gave rise to an odd invention. They plotted comedies and even fantastical
ballets from their subjects. In these Curiosities of Literature I cannot pass by such eccentric
inventions unnoticed.

A COMEDY of proverbs is described by the Duke de la Vallière, which was performed in 1634 with
prodigious success. He considers that this comedy ought to be ranked among farces; but it is
gay, well-written, and curious for containing the best proverbs, which are happily introduced
in the dialogue.

A more extraordinary attempt was a BALLET of proverbs. Before the opera was established in
France, the ancient ballets formed the chief amusement of the court, and Louis the Fourteenth
himself joined with the performers. The singular attempt of forming a pantomimical dance out
of proverbs is quite French; we have a "ballet des proverbes, dansé par le Roi, in 1654." At
every proverb the scene changed, and adapted itself to the subject. I shall give two or three
of the entrées that we may form some notion of these capriccios.

The proverb was---

  Tel menace qui a grand peur.
  He threatens who is afraid.

The scene was composed of swaggering scaramouches and some honest cits, who at length beat
them off.

At another entrée the proverb was--

  L'occasion fait le larron.
  Opportunity makes the thief.

Opportunity was acted by le Sieur Beaubrun, but it is difficult to conceive how the real could
personify the abstract personage. The thieves were the Duke d'Amville and Monsieur de la Chesnaye.

Another entrée was the proverb of--

  Ce qui vient de la flute s'en va au tambour.
  What comes by the pipe goes by the tabor.

A loose dissipated officer was performed by le Sieur l'Anglois; the Pipe by St. Aignan, and
the Tabor by le Sieur le Comte! In this manner every proverb was spoken in action, the whole
connected by dialogue. More must have depended on the actors than the poet.[37]

The French long retained this fondness for proverbs; for they still have dramatic compositions
entitled proverbes, on a more refined plan. Their invention is so recent, that the term is
not in their great dictionary of Trevoux. These proverbes are dramas of a single act, invented
by Carmontel, who possessed a peculiar vein of humour, but who designed them only for private
theatricals. Each proverb furnished a subject for a few scenes, and created a situation powerfully
comic: it is a dramatic amusement which does not appear to have reached us, but one which the
celebrated Catherine of Russia delighted to compose for her own society.

Among the middle classes of society to this day, we may observe that certain family proverbs
are traditionally preserved: the favourite saying of a father is repeated by the sons; and
frequently the conduct of a whole generation has been influenced by such domestic proverbs.
This may be perceived in many of the mottos of our old nobility, which seem to have originated
in some habitual proverb of the founder of the family. In ages when proverbs were most prevalent,
such pithy sentences would admirably serve in the ordinary business of life, and lead on to
decision, even in its greater exigencies. Orators, by some lucky proverb, without wearying
their auditors, would bring conviction home to their bosoms: and great characters would appeal
to a proverb, or deliver that which in time by its aptitude became one. When Nero was reproached
for the ardour with which he gave himself up to the study of music, he replied to his censurers
by the Greek proverb, "An artist lives everywhere." The emperor answered in the spirit of Rousseau's
system, that every child should be taught some trade. When Cæsar, after anxious deliberation,
decided on the passage of the Rubicon (which very event has given rise to a proverb), rousing
himself with a start of courage, he committed himself to Fortune, with that proverbial expression
on his lips, used by gamesters in desperate play: having passed the Rubicon, he exclaimed,
"The die is cast!" The answer of Paulus Æmilius to the relations of his wife, who had remonstrated
with him on his determination to separate himself from her against whom no fault could be alleged,
has become one of our most familiar proverbs. This hero acknowledged the excellences of his
lady; but, requesting them to look on his shoe, which appeared to be well made, he observed,
"None of you know where the shoe pinches!" He either used a proverbial phrase, or by its aptness
it has become one of the most popular.

There are, indeed, proverbs connected with the characters of eminent men. They were either
their favourite ones, or have originated with themselves. Such a collection would form a historical
curiosity. To the celebrated Bayard are the French indebted for a military proverb, which some
of them still repeat, "Ce que le gantelet gagne le gorgerin le mange"--"What the gauntlet gets,
the gorget consumes." That reflecting soldier well calculated the profits of a military life,
which consumes, in the pomp and waste which are necessary for its maintenance, the slender
pay it receives, and even what its rapacity sometimes acquires. The favourite proverb of Erasmus
was Festina lente!--"Hasten slowly!"[38] He wished it be inscribed wherever it could meet our
eyes, on public buildings, and on our rings and seals. One of our own statesmen used a favourite
sentence, which has enlarged our stock of national proverbs. Sir Amias Pawlet, when he perceived
too much hurry in any business, was accustomed to say, "Stay awhile, to make an end the sooner."
Oliver Cromwell's coarse but descriptive proverb conveys the contempt he felt for some of his
mean and troublesome coadjutors: "Nits will be lice!" The Italians have a proverb, which has
been occasionally applied to certain political personages:--

  Egli e quello che Dio vuole;
  E sarà quello che Dio vorrà!

  He is what God pleases;
  He shall be what God wills!

Ere this was a proverb, it had served as an embroidered motto on the mystical mantle of Castruccio
Castracani. That military genius, who sought to revolutionise Italy, and aspired to its sovereignty,
lived long enough to repent the wild romantic ambition which provoked all Italy to confederate
against him; the mysterious motto he assumed entered into the proverbs of his country! The
Border proverb of the Douglases, "It were better to hear the lark sing than the mouse cheep,"
was adopted by every Border chief, to express, as Sir Walter Scott observes, what the great
Bruce had pointed out, that the woods and hills of their country were their safest bulwarks,
instead of the fortified places which the English surpassed their neighbours in the arts of
assaulting or defending. These illustrations indicate one of the sources of proverbs; they
have often resulted from the spontaneous emotions or the profound reflections of some extraordinary
individual, whose energetic expression was caught by a faithful ear, never to perish!

The poets have been very busy with proverbs in all the languages of Europe: some appear to
have been the favourite lines of some ancient poem: even in more refined times, many of the
pointed verses of Boileau and Pope have become proverbial. Many trivial and laconic proverbs
bear the jingle of alliteration or rhyme, which assisted their circulation, and were probably
struck off extempore; a manner which Swift practised, who was a ready coiner of such rhyming
and ludicrous proverbs: delighting to startle a collector by his facetious or sarcastic humour,
in the shape of an "old saying and true." Some of these rhyming proverbs are, however, terse
and elegant: we have

  Little strokes
  Fell great oaks.

The Italian--

  Chi duo lepri caccia
  Uno perde, e l'altro lascia.

  Who hunts two hares, loses one and leaves the other.

The haughty Spaniard--

  El dar es honor,
  Y el pedir dolor.

  To give is honour, to ask is grief.

And the French--

  Ami de table
  Est variable.

  The friend of the table
  Is very variable.

The composers of these short proverbs were a numerous race of poets, who, probably, among the
dreams of their immortality never suspected that they were to descend to posterity, themselves
and their works unknown, while their extempore thoughts would be repeated by their own nation.

Proverbs were at length consigned to the people, when books were addressed to scholars; but
the people did not find themselves so destitute of practical wisdom, by preserving their national
proverbs, as some of those closet students who had ceased to repeat them. The various humours
of mankind, in the mutability of human affairs, had given birth to every species; and men were
wise, or merry, or satirical, and mourned or rejoiced in proverbs. Nations held an universal
intercourse of proverbs, from the eastern to the western world; for we discover among those
which appear strictly national, many which are common to them all. Of our own familiar ones
several may be tracked among the snows of the Latins and the Greeks, and have sometimes been
drawn from "The Mines of the East:" like decayed families which remain in obscurity, they may
boast of a high lineal descent whenever they recover their lost title-deeds. The vulgar proverb,
"To carry coals to Newcastle," local and idiomatic as it appears, however, has been borrowed
and applied by ourselves; it may be found among the Persians: in the "Bustan" of Sadi we have
Infers piper in Hindostan; "To carry pepper to Hindostan;" among the Hebrews, "To carry oil
to the City of Olives;" a similar proverb occurs in Greek; and in Galland's "Maxims of the
East" we may discover how many of the most common proverbs among us, as well as some of Joe
Miller's jests, are of oriental origin.

The resemblance of certain proverbs in different nations, must, however, be often ascribed
to the identity of human nature; similar situations and similar objects have unquestionably
made men think and act and express themselves alike. All nations are parallels of each other!
Hence all paroemiographers, or collectors of proverbs, complain of the difficulty of separating
their own national proverbs from those which have crept into the language from others, particularly
when nations have held much intercourse together. We have a copious collection of Scottish
proverbs by Kelly, but this learned man was mortified at discovering that many which he had
long believed to have been genuine Scottish, were not only English, but French, Italian, Spanish,
Latin, and Greek ones; many of his Scottish proverbs are almost literally expressed among the
fragments of remote antiquity. It would have surprised him further had he been aware that his
Greek originals were themselves but copies, and might have been found in D'Herbelot, Erpenius,
and Golius, and in many Asiatic works, which have been more recently introduced to the enlarged
knowledge of the European student, who formerly found his most extended researches limited
by Hellenistic lore.

Perhaps it was owing to an accidental circumstance that the proverbs of the European nations
have been preserved in the permanent form of volumes. Erasmus is usually considered as the
first modern collector, but he appears to have been preceded by Polydore Vergil, who bitterly
reproaches Erasmus with envy and plagiarism, for passing by his collection without even a poor
compliment for the inventor! Polydore was a vain, superficial writer, who prided himself in
leading the way on more topics than the present. Erasmus, with his usual pleasantry, provokingly
excuses himself, by acknowledging that he had forgotten his friend's book! Few sympathise with
the quarrels of authors; and since Erasmus has written a far better book than Polydore Vergil's,
the original "Adagia" is left only to be commemorated in literary history as one of its curiosities.[39]

The "Adagia" of Erasmus contains a collection of about five thousand proverbs, gradually gathered
from a constant study of the ancients. Erasmus, blest with the genius which could enliven a
folio, delighted himself and all Europe by the continued accessions he made to a volume which
even now may be the companion of literary men for a winter day's fireside. The successful example
of Erasmus commanded the imitation of the learned in Europe, and drew their attention to their
own national proverbs. Some of the most learned men, and some not sufficiently so, were now
occupied in this new study.

In Spain, Fernandez Nunes, a Greek professor, and the Marquis of Santellana, a grandee, published
collections of their Refranes, or Proverbs, a term derived A REFERENDO, because it is often
repeated. The "Refranes o Proverbios Castellanos," par Cæsar Oudin, 1624, translated into French,
is a valuable compilation. In Cervantes and Quevedo, the best practical illustrators, they
are sown with no sparing hand. There is an ample collection of Italian proverbs, by Florio,
who was an Englishman, of Italian origin, and who published "Il Giardino di Ricreatione" at
London, so early as in 1591, exceeding six thousand proverbs; but they are unexplained, and
are often obscure. Another Italian in England, Torriano, in 1649, published an interesting
collection in the diminutive form of a twenty-fours. It was subsequent to these publications
in England, that in Italy, Angelus Monozini, in 1604, published his collection; and Julius
Varini, in 1642, produced his Scuola del Vulgo. In France, Oudin, after others had preceded
him, published a collection of French proverbs, under the title of Curiosités Françoises. Fleury
de Bellingen's Explication de Proverbes François, on comparing it with Les Illustres Proverbes
Historiques, a subsequent publication, I discovered to be the same work. It is the first attempt
to render the study of proverbs somewhat amusing. The plan consists of a dialogue between a
philosopher and a Sancho Pança, who blurts out his proverbs with more delight than understanding.
The philosopher takes that opportunity of explaining them by the events in which they originated,
which, however, are not always to be depended on. A work of high merit on French proverbs is
the unfinished one of the Abbé Tuet, sensible and learned. A collection of Danish proverbs,
accompanied by a French translation, was printed at Copenhagen, in a quarto volume, 1761. England
may boast of no inferior paroemiographers. The grave and judicious Camden, the religious Herbert,
the entertaining Howell, the facetious Fuller, and the laborious Ray, with others, have preserved
our national sayings. The Scottish have been largely collected and explained by the learned
Kelly. An excellent anonymous collection, not uncommon, in various languages, 1707; the collector
and translator was Dr. J. Mapletoft. It must be acknowledged, that although no nation exceeds
our own in sterling sense, we rarely rival the delicacy, the wit, and the felicity of expression
of the Spanish and the Italian, and the poignancy of some of the French proverbs.

The interest we may derive from the study of proverbs is not confined to their universal truths,
nor to their poignant pleasantry; a philosophical mind will discover in proverbs a great variety
of the most curious knowledge. The manners of a people are painted after life in their domestic
proverbs; and it would not be advancing too much to assert, that the genius of the age might
be often detected in its prevalent ones. The learned Selden tells us, that the proverbs of
several nations were much studied by Bishop Andrews: the reason assigned was, because "by them
he knew the minds of several nations, which," said he, "is a brave thing, as we count him wise
who knows the minds and the insides of men, which is done by knowing what is habitual to them."
Lord Bacon condensed a wide circuit of philosophical thought, when he observed that "the genius,
wit, and spirit of a nation are discovered by their proverbs."

Proverbs peculiarly national, while they convey to us the modes of thinking, will consequently
indicate the modes of acting among a people. The Romans had a proverbial expression for their
last stake in play, Rem ad triarios venisse, "the reserve are engaged!" a proverbial expression,
from which the military habits of the people might be inferred; the triarii being their reserve.
A proverb has preserved a curious custom of ancient coxcombry, which originally came from the
Greeks. To men of effeminate manners in their dress, they applied the proverb of Unico digitulo
scalpit caput. Scratching the head with a single finger was, it seems, done by the critically
nice youths in Rome, that they might not discompose the economy of their hair. The Arab, whose
unsettled existence makes him miserable and interested, says, "Vinegar given is better than
honey bought." Everything of high esteem with him who is so often parched in the desert is
described as milk--"How large his flow of milk!" is a proverbial expression with the Arab to
distinguish the most copious eloquence. To express a state of perfect repose, the Arabian proverb
is, "I throw the rein over my back;" an allusion to the loosening of the cords of the camels,
which are thrown over their backs when they are sent to pasture. We discover the rustic manners
of our ancient Britons in the Cambrian proverbs; many relate to the hedge. "The cleanly Briton
is seen in the hedge: the horse looks not on the hedge but the corn: the bad husband's hedge
is full of gaps." The state of an agricultural people appears in such proverbs as "You must
not count your yearlings till May-day:" and their proverbial sentence for old age is, "An old
man's end is to keep sheep?" Turn from the vagrant Arab and the agricultural Briton to a nation
existing in a high state of artificial civilization: the Chinese proverbs frequently allude
to magnificent buildings. Affecting a more solemn exterior than all other nations, a favourite
proverb with them is, "A grave and majestic outside is, as it were, the palace of the soul."
Their notion of a government is quite architectural. They say, "A sovereign may be compared
to a hall; his officers to the steps that lead to it; the people to the ground on which they
stand." What should we think of a people who had a proverb, that "He who gives blows is a master,
he who gives none is a dog?" We should instantly decide on the mean and servile spirit of those
who could repeat it; and such we find to have been that of the Bengalese, to whom the degrading
proverb belongs, derived from the treatment they were used to receive from their Mogul rulers,
who answered the claims of their creditors by a vigorous application of the whip! In some of
the Hebrew proverbs we are struck by the frequent allusions of that fugitive people to their
own history. The cruel oppression exercised by the ruling power, and the confidence in their
hope of change in the day of retribution, was delivered in this Hebrew proverb--"When the tale
of bricks is doubled, Moses comes!" The fond idolatry of their devotion to their ceremonial
law, and to everything connected with their sublime Theocracy, in their magnificent Temple,
is finely expressed by this proverb--"None ever took a stone out of the Temple, but the dust
did fly into his eyes." The Hebrew proverb that "A fast for a dream, is as fire for stubble,"
which it kindles, could only have been invented by a people whose superstitions attached a
holy mystery to fasts and dreams. They imagined that a religious fast was propitious to a religious
dream; or to obtain the interpretation of one which had troubled their imagination. Peyssonel,
who long resided among the Turks, observes that their proverbs are full of sense, ingenuity,
and elegance, the surest test of the intellectual abilities of any nation. He said this to
correct the volatile opinion of De Tott, who, to convey an idea of their stupid pride, quotes
one of their favourite adages, of which the truth and candour are admirable; "Riches in the
Indies, wit in Europe, and pomp among the Ottomans."

The Spaniards may appeal to their proverbs to show that they were a high-minded and independent
race. A Whiggish jealousy of the monarchical power stamped itself on this ancient one, Va el
rey hasta do peude, y no hasta do quiere: "The king goes as far as he is able, not as far as
he desires." It must have been at a later period, when the national genius became more subdued,
and every Spaniard dreaded to find under his own roof a spy or an informer, that another proverb
arose, Con el rey y la inquisicion, chiton! "With the king and the Inquisition, hush!" The
gravity and taciturnity of the nation have been ascribed to the effects of this proverb. Their
popular but suppressed feelings on taxation, and on a variety of dues exacted by their clergy,
were murmured in proverbs--Lo que no lleva Christo lleva el fisco! "What Christ takes not,
the exchequer carries away!" They have a number of sarcastic proverbs on the tenacious gripe
of the "abad avariento," the avaricious priest, who, "having eaten the olio offered, claims
the dish!" A striking mixture of chivalric habits, domestic decency, and epicurean comfort,
appears in the Spanish proverb, La muger y la salsa a la mano de la lança: "The wife and the
sauce by the hand of the lance;" to honour the dame, and to have the sauce near.

The Italian proverbs have taken a tinge from their deep and politic genius, and their wisdom
seems wholly concentrated in their personal interests. I think every tenth proverb, in an Italian
collection, is some cynical or some selfish maxim: a book of the world for worldlings! The
Venetian proverb, Pria Veneziana, poi Christiane: "First Venetian, and then Christian!" condenses
the whole spirit of their ancient Republic into the smallest space possible. Their political
proverbs no doubt arose from the extraordinary state of a people sometimes distracted among
republics, and sometimes servile in petty courts. The Italian says, I popoli s'ammazzano, ed
i principi s'abbracciano: "The people murder one another, and princes embrace one another."
Chi prattica co' grandi, l'ultimo a tavola, e'l primo a strapazzi: "Who dangles after the great
is the last at table, and the first at blows." Chi non sa adulare, non sa regnare: "Who knows
not to flatter, knows not to reign." Chi serve in corte muore sul' pagliato: "Who serves at
court, dies on straw." Wary cunning in domestic life is perpetually impressed. An Italian proverb,
which is immortalised in our language, for it enters into the history of Milton, was that by
which the elegant Wotton counselled the young poetic traveller to have--Il viso sciolto, ed
i pensieri stretti, "An open countenance, but close thoughts." In the same spirit, Chi parla
semina, chi tace raccoglie: "The talker sows, the silent reaps;" as well as, Fatti di miele,
e ti mangieran le mosche: "Make yourself all honey, and the flies will devour you." There are
some which display a deep knowledge of human nature: A Lucca ti vidi, à Pisa ti connobbi! "I
saw you at Lucca, I knew you at Pisa!" Guardati d'aceto di vin dolce: "Beware of vinegar made
of sweet wine;" provoke not the rage of a patient man!

Among a people who had often witnessed their fine country devastated by petty warfare, their
notion of the military character was not usually heroic. Il soldato per far male è ben pagato:
"The soldier is well paid for doing mischief." Soldato, acqua, e fuoco, presto si fan luoco:
"A soldier, fire, and water soon make room for themselves." But in a poetical people, endowed
with great sensibility, their proverbs would sometimes be tender and fanciful. They paint the
activity of friendship, Chi ha l'amor nel petto, ha lo sprone à i fianchi: "Who feels love
in the breast, feels a spur in his limbs:" or its generous passion, Gli amici legono la borsa
con un filo di ragnatelo: "Friends tie their purse with a cobweb's thread." They characterised
the universal lover by an elegant proverb--Appicare il Maio ad ogn' uscio: "To hang every door
with May;" alluding to the bough which in the nights of May the country people are accustomed
to plant before the door of their mistress. If we turn to the French, we discover that the
military genius of France dictated the proverb Maille à maille se fait le haubergeon: "Link
by link is made the coat of mail;" and, Tel coup de langue est pire qu'un coup de lance; "The
tongue strikes deeper than the lance;" and Ce qui vient du tambour s'en retourne à la flute;
"What comes by the tabor goes back with the pipe." Point d'argent point de Suisse has become
proverbial, observes an Edinburgh Reviewer; a striking expression, which, while French or Austrian
gold predominated, was justly used to characterise the illiberal and selfish policy of the
cantonal and federal governments of Switzerland, when it began to degenerate from its moral
patriotism. The ancient, perhaps the extinct, spirit of Englishmen was once expressed by our
proverb, "Better be the head of a dog than the tail of a lion;" i.e., the first of the yeomanry
rather than the last of the gentry. These instances sufficiently demonstrate that the characteristic
circumstances and feelings of a people are discovered in their popular notions, and stamped
on their familiar proverbs.

It is also evident that the peculiar, and often idiomatic, humour of a people is best preserved
in their proverbs. There is a shrewdness, although deficient in delicacy, in the Scottish proverbs;
they are idiomatic, facetious, and strike home. Kelly, who has collected three thousand, informs
us, that, in 1725, the Scotch were a great proverbial nation; for that few among the better
sort will converse any considerable time, but will confirm every assertion and observation
with a Scottish proverb. The speculative Scotch of our own times have probably degenerated
in prudential lore, and deem themselves much wiser than their proverbs. They may reply by a
Scotch proverb on proverbs, made by a great man in Scotland, who, having given a splendid entertainment,
was harshly told, that "Fools make feasts, and wise men eat them;" but he readily answered,
"Wise men make proverbs, and fools repeat them!"

National humour, frequently local and idiomatical, depends on the artificial habits of mankind,
so opposite to each other; but there is a natural vein, which the populace, always true to
nature, preserve, even among the gravest people. The Arabian proverb, "The barber learns his
art on the orphan's face;" the Chinese, "In a field of melons do not pull up your shoe; under
a plum-tree do not adjust your cap;"--to impress caution in our conduct under circumstances
of suspicion;--and the Hebrew one, "He that hath had one of his family hanged may not say to
his neighbour, hang up this fish!" are all instances of this sort of humour. The Spaniards
are a grave people, but no nation has equalled them in their peculiar humour. The genius of
Cervantes partook largely of that of his country; that mantle of gravity, which almost conceals
its latent facetiousness, and with which he has imbued his style and manner with such untranslatable
idiomatic raciness, may be traced to the proverbial erudition of his nation. "To steal a sheep,
and give away the trotters for God's sake!" is Cervantic nature! To one who is seeking an opportunity
to quarrel with another, their proverb runs, Si quieres dar palos a sur muger pidele al sol
a bever, "Hast thou a mind to quarrel with thy wife, bid her bring water to thee in the sunshine!"--a
very fair quarrel may be picked up about the motes in the clearest water! On the judges in
Gallicia, who, like our former justices of peace, "for half a dozen chickens would dispense
with a dozen of penal statutes," A juezes Gallicianos, con los pies en las manos: "To the judges
of Gallicia go with feet in hand;" a droll allusion to a present of poultry, usually held by
the legs. To describe persons who live high without visible means, Los que cabritos venden,
y cabras no tienen, de donde los vienen? "They that sell kids, and have no goats, how came
they by them?" El vino no trae bragas, "Wine wears no breeches;" for men in wine expose their
most secret thoughts. Vino di un oreja, "Wine of one ear!" is good wine; for at bad, shaking
our heads, both our ears are visible; but at good the Spaniard, by a natural gesticulation
lowering on one side, shows a single ear.

Proverbs abounding in sarcastic humour, and found among every people, are those which are pointed
at rival countries. Among ourselves, hardly has a county escaped from some popular quip; even
neighbouring towns have their sarcasms, usually pickled in some unlucky rhyme. The egotism
of man eagerly seizes on whatever serves to depreciate or to ridicule his neighbour: nations
proverb each other; counties flout counties; obscure towns sharpen their wits on towns as obscure
as themselves--the same evil principle lurking in poor human nature, if it cannot always assume
predominance, will meanly gratify itself by insult or contempt. They expose some prevalent
folly, or allude to some disgrace which the natives have incurred. In France, the Burgundians
have a proverb, Mieux vaut bon repas que bel habit; "Better a good dinner than a fine coat."
These good people are great gormandizers, but shabby dressers; they are commonly said to have
"bowels of silk and velvet;" this is, all their silk and velvet goes for their bowels! Thus
Picardy is famous for "hot heads;" and the Norman for son dit et son dédit, "his saying and
his unsaying!" In Italy the numerous rival cities pelt one another with proverbs: Chi ha a
fare con Tosco non convien esser losco, "He who deals with a Tuscan must not have his eyes
shut." A Venetia chi vi nasce mal vi si pasce, "Whom Venice breeds, she poorly feeds."

There is another source of national characteristics, frequently producing strange or whimsical
combinations; a people, from a very natural circumstance, have drawn their proverbs from local
objects, or from allusions to peculiar customs. The influence of manners and customs over the
ideas and language of a people would form a subject of extensive and curious research. There
is a Japanese proverb, that "A fog cannot be dispelled with a fan!" Had we not known the origin
of this proverb, it would be evident that it could only have occurred to a people who had constantly
before them fogs and fans; and the fact appears that fogs are frequent on the coast of Japan,
and that from the age of five years both sexes of the Japanese carry fans. The Spaniards have
an odd proverb to describe those who tease and vex a person before they do him the very benefit
which they are about to confer--acting kindly, but speaking roughly; Mostrar primero la horca
que le lugar, "To show the gallows before they show the town;" a circumstance alluding to their
small towns, which have a gallows placed on an eminence, so that the gallows breaks on the
eye of the traveller before he gets a view of the town itself.

The Cheshire proverb on marriage, "Better wed over the mixon than over the moor," that is,
at home or in its vicinity; mixon alludes to the dung, &c., in the farm-yard, while the road
from Chester to London is over the moorland in Staffordshire: this local proverb is a curious
instance of provincial pride, perhaps of wisdom, to induce the gentry of that county to form
intermarriages; to prolong their own ancient families, and perpetuate ancient friendships between
them.

In the Isle of Man a proverbial expression forcibly indicates the object constantly occupying
the minds of the inhabitants. The two Deemsters or judges, when appointed to the chair of judgment,
declare they will render justice between man and man "as equally as the herring bone lies between
the two sides:" an image which could not have occurred to any people unaccustomed to the herring-fishery.
There is a Cornish proverb, "Those who will not be ruled by the rudder must be ruled by the
rock"--the strands of Cornwall, so often covered with wrecks, could not fail to impress on
the imaginations of its inhabitants the two objects from whence they drew this salutary proverb
against obstinate wrongheads.

When Scotland, in the last century, felt its allegiance to England doubtful, and when the French
sent an expedition to the Land of Cakes, a local proverb was revived, to show the identity
of interests which affected both nations:

  If Skiddaw hath a cap,
  Scruffel wots full well of that.

These are two high hills, one in Scotland and one in England; so near, that what happens to
the one will not be long ere it reach the other. If a fog lodges on the one, it is sure to
rain on the other; the mutual sympathies of the two countries were hence deduced in a copious
dissertation, by Oswald Dyke, on what was called "The Union-proverb," which local proverbs
of our country Fuller has interspersed in his "Worthies," and Ray and Grose have collected
separately.

I was amused lately by a curious financial revelation which I found in an opposition paper,
where it appears that "Ministers pretend to make their load of taxes more portable, by shifting
the burden, or altering the pressure, without, however, diminishing the weight; according to
the Italian proverb, Accommodare le bisaccie nella strada, 'To fit the load on the journey:'"
it is taken from a custom of the mule-drivers, who, placing their packages at first but awkwardly
on the backs of their poor beasts, and seeing them ready to sink, cry out, "Never mind! we
must fit them better on the road!" I was gratified to discover, by the present and some other
modern instances, that the taste for proverbs was reviving, and that we were returning to those
sober times, when the aptitude of a simple proverb would be preferred to the verbosity of politicians,
Tories, Whigs, or Radicals!

There are domestic proverbs which originate in incidents known only to the natives of their
province. Italian literature is particularly rich in these stores. The lively proverbial taste
of that vivacious people was transferred to their own authors; and when these allusions were
obscured by time, learned Italians, in their zeal for their national literature, and in their
national love of story-telling, have written grave commentaries even on ludicrous, but popular
tales, in which the proverbs are said to have originated. They resemble the old facetious contes,
whose simplicity and humour still live in the pages of Boccaccio, and are not forgotten in
those of the Queen of Navarre.

The Italians apply a proverb to a person who while he is beaten, takes the blows quietly:--

  Per beato ch' elle non furon pesche!
  Luckily they were not peaches!

And to threaten to give a man--

  Una pesca in un occhio.
  A peach in the eye,

means to give him a thrashing. This proverb, it is said, originated in the close of a certain
droll adventure. The community of the Castle Poggibonsi, probably from some jocular tenure
observed on St. Bernard's day, pay a tribute of peaches to the court of Tuscany, which are
usually shared among the ladies in waiting, and the pages of the court. It happened one season,
in a great scarcity of peaches, that the good people of Poggibonsi, finding them rather dear,
sent, instead of the customary tribute, a quantity of fine juicy figs, which was so much disapproved
of by the pages, that as soon as they got hold of them, they began in rage to empty the baskets
on the heads of the ambassadors of the Poggibonsi, who, in attempting to fly as well as they
could from the pulpy shower, half-blinded, and recollecting that peaches would have had stones
in them, cried out--

  Per beato ch' elle non furon pesche!
  Luckily they were not peaches!

Fare le scalée di Sant' Ambrogio; "To mount the stairs of Saint Ambrose," a proverb allusive
to the business of the school of scandal. Varchi explains it by a circumstance so common in
provincial cities. On summer evenings, for fresh air and gossip, the loungers met on the steps
and landing-places of the church of St. Ambrose: whoever left the party, "they read in his
book," as our commentator expresses it; and not a leaf was passed over! All liked to join a
party so well informed of one another's concerns, and every one tried to be the very last to
quit it,--not "to leave his character behind!" It became a proverbial phrase with those who
left a company, and were too tender of their backs, to request they would not "mount the stairs
of St. Ambrose." Jonson has well described such a company:

  You are so truly fear'd, but not beloved
  One of another, as no one dares break
  Company from the rest, lest they should fall
  Upon him absent.

There are legends and histories which belong to proverbs; and some of the most ancient refer
to incidents which have not always been commemorated. Two Greek proverbs have accidentally
been explained by Pausanias: "He is a man of Tenedos!" to describe a person of unquestionable
veracity; and "To cut with the Tenedian axe;" to express an absolute and irrevocable refusal.
The first originated in a king of Tenedos, who decreed that there should always stand behind
the judge a man holding an axe, ready to execute justice on any one convicted of falsehood.
The other arose from the same king, whose father having reached his island, to supplicate the
son's forgiveness for the injury inflicted on him by the arts of a step-mother, was preparing
to land; already the ship was fastened by its cable to a rock; when the son came down, and
sternly cutting the cable with an axe, sent the ship adrift to the mercy of the waves: hence,
"to cut with the Tenedian axe," became proverbial to express an absolute refusal. "Business
to-morrow!" is another Greek proverb, applied to a person ruined by his own neglect. The fate
of an eminent person perpetuated the expression which he casually employed on the occasion.
One of the Theban polemarchs, in the midst of a convivial party, received despatches relating
to a conspiracy: flushed with wine, although pressed by the courier to open them immediately,
he smiled, and in gaiety laying the letter under the pillow of his couch, observed, "Business
to-morrow!" Plutarch records that he fell a victim to the twenty-four hours he had lost, and
became the author of a proverb which was still circulated among the Greeks.

The philosophical antiquary may often discover how many a proverb commemorates an event which
has escaped from the more solemn monuments of history, and is often the solitary authority
of its existence. A national event in Spanish history is preserved by a proverb. Y vengar quiniento
sueldos; "And revenge five hundred pounds!" An odd expression to denote a person being a gentleman!
but the proverb is historical. The Spaniards of Old Castile were compelled to pay an annual
tribute of five hundred maidens to their masters, the Moors; after several battles, the Spaniards
succeeded in compromising the shameful tribute, by as many pieces of coin: at length the day
arrived when they entirely emancipated themselves from this odious imposition. The heroic action
was performed by men of distinction, and the event perpetuated in the recollections of the
Spaniards by this singular expression, which alludes to the dishonourable tribute, was applied
to characterise all men of high honour, and devoted lovers of their country.

Pasquier, in his Récherches sur la France, reviewing the periodical changes of ancient families
in feudal times, observes, that a proverb among the common people conveys the result of all
his inquiries; for those noble houses, which in a single age declined from nobility and wealth
to poverty and meanness, gave rise to the proverb, Cent ans bannières et cent ans civières!
"One hundred years a banner and one hundred years a barrow!" The Italian proverb, Con l'Evangilio
si diventa heretico, "With the gospel we become heretics,"--reflects the policy of the court
of Rome; and must be dated at the time of the Reformation, when a translation of the Scriptures
into the vulgar tongue encountered such an invincible opposition. The Scotch proverb, He that
invented the maiden first hanselled it; that is, got the first of it! The maiden is that well-known
beheading engine, revived by the French surgeon Guillotine. This proverb may be applied to
one who falls a victim to his own ingenuity; the artificer of his own destruction! The inventor
was James, Earl of Morton, who for some years governed Scotland, and afterwards, it is said,
very unjustly suffered by his own invention. It is a striking coincidence, that the same fate
was shared by the French reviver; both alike sad examples of disturbed times! Among our own
proverbs a remarkable incident has been commemorated; Hand over head, as the men took the Covenant!
This preserves the manner in which the Scotch covenant, so famous in our history, was violently
taken by above sixty thousand persons about Edinburgh, in 1638; a circumstance at that time
novel in our own revolutionary history, and afterwards paralleled by the French in voting by
"acclamation." An ancient English proverb preserves a curious fact concerning our coinage.
Testers are gone to Oxford, to study at Brazennose. When Henry the Eighth debased the silver
coin, called testers, from their having a head stamped on one side; the brass, breaking out
in red pimples on their silver faces, provoked the ill-humour of the people to vent itself
in this punning proverb, which has preserved for the historical antiquary the popular feeling
which lasted about fifty years, till Elizabeth reformed the state of the coinage. A northern
proverb among us has preserved the remarkable idea which seems to have once been prevalent,
that the metropolis of England was to be the city of York; Lincoln was, London is, York shall
be! Whether at the time of the union of the crowns, under James the First, when England and
Scotland became Great Britain, this city, from its centrical situation, was considered as the
best adapted for the seat of government, or for some other cause which I have not discovered,
this notion must have been prevalent to have entered into a proverb. The chief magistrate of
York is the only provincial one who is allowed the title of Lord Mayor; a circumstance which
seems connected with this proverb.

The Italian history of its own small principalities, whose well-being so much depended on their
prudence and sagacity, affords many instances of the timely use of a proverb. Many an intricate
negotiation has been contracted through a good-humoured proverb,--many a sarcastic one has
silenced an adversary; and sometimes they have been applied on more solemn, and even tragical
occasions. When Rinaldo degli Albizzi was banished by the vigorous conduct of Cosmo de' Medici,
Machiavel tells us the expelled man sent Cosmo a menace, in a proverb, La gallina covava! "The
hen is brooding!" said of one meditating vengeance. The undaunted Cosmo replied by another,
that "There was no brooding out of the nest!"

I give an example of peculiar interest; for it is perpetuated by Dante, and is connected with
the character of Milton.

When the families of the Amadei and the Uberti felt their honour wounded in the affront the
younger Buondelmonte had put upon them, in breaking off his match with a young lady of their
family, by marrying another, a council was held, and the death of the young cavalier was proposed
as the sole atonement for their injured honour. But the consequences which they anticipated,
and which afterwards proved so fatal to the Florentines, long suspended their decision. At
length Moscha Lamberti suddenly rising, exclaimed, in two proverbs, "That those who considered
everything would never conclude on anything!" closing with an ancient proverbial saying--cosa
fatta capo ha! "a deed done has an end!" The proverb sealed the fatal determination, and was
long held in mournful remembrance by the Tuscans; for, according to Villani, it was the cause
and beginning of the accursed factions of the Guelphs and the Ghibellines. Dante has thus immortalised
the energetic expression in a scene of the "Inferno."

  Ed un, ch' avea l'una e l'altra man mozza,
  Levando i moncherin per l'aura fosca,
  Si che 'l sangue facea la faccia sozza,
  Gridò:--"Ricorderati anche del Mosca,
  Che dissi, lasso: Capo ha cosa fatta,
  Che fu 'l mal seme della gente Tosca."

     CARY'S Dante.

This Italian proverb was adopted by Milton; for when deeply engaged in writing "The Defence
of the People," and warned that it might terminate in his blindness, he resolvedly concluded
his work, exclaiming with great magnanimity, although the fatal prognostication had been accomplished,
cosa fatta capo ha! Did this proverb also influence his awful decision on that great national
event, when the most honest-minded fluctuated between doubts and fears?

Of a person treacherously used, the Italian proverb says that he has eaten of

  Le frutte di fratre Alberigo.
  The fruit of brother Alberigo.

Landino, on the following passage of Dante, preserves the tragic story:--

  ------Io son fratre Alberigo,
  Io son quel dalle frutta del mal orto
  Che qui reprendo, &c.

     Canto xxxiii.

     CARY'S Dante.

This was Manfred, the Lord of Fuenza, who, after many cruelties, turned friar. Reconciling
himself to those whom he had so often opposed, to celebrate the renewal of their friendship
he invited them to a magnificent entertainment. At the end of the dinner the horn blew to announce
the dessert--but it was the signal of this dissimulating conspirator!--and the fruits which
that day were served to his guests were armed men, who, rushing in, immolated their victims.

Among these historical proverbs none are more entertaining than those which perpetuate national
events, connected with those of another people. When a Frenchman would let us understand that
he has settled with his creditors, the proverb is J'ai payé tous mes Anglois: "I have paid
all my English." This proverb originated when John, the French king, was taken prisoner by
our Black Prince. Levies of money were made for the king's ransom, and for many French lords;
and the French people have thus perpetuated the military glory of our nation, and their own
idea of it, by making the English and their creditors synonymous terms. Another relates to
the same event--Le Pape est devenu François, et Jesus Christ Anglais: "Now the Pope is become
French and Jesus Christ English;" a proverb which arose when the Pope, exiled from Rome, held
his court at Avignon in France; and the English prospered so well, that they possessed more
than half the kingdom. The Spanish proverb concerning England is well known--

  Con todo el mondo guerra,
  Y paz con Inglaterra!

  War with the world,
  And peace with England!

Whether this proverb was one of the results of their memorable armada, and was only coined
after their conviction of the splendid folly which they had committed, I cannot ascertain.
England must always have been a desirable ally to Spain against her potent rival and neighbour.
The Italians have a proverb, which formerly, at least, was strongly indicative of the travelled
Englishmen in their country, Inglese Italianato è un diavolo incarnato; "The Italianised Englishman
is a devil incarnate." Formerly there existed a closer intercourse between our country and
Italy than with France. Before and during the reigns of Elizabeth and James the First that
land of the elegant arts modelled our taste and manners: and more Italians travelled into England,
and were more constant residents, from commercial concerns, than afterwards when France assumed
a higher rank in Europe by her political superiority. This cause will sufficiently account
for the number of Italian proverbs relating to England, which show an intimacy with our manners
that could not else have occurred. It was probably some sarcastic Italian, and, perhaps, horologer,
who, to describe the disagreement of persons, proverbed our nation--"They agree like the clocks
of London!" Our pie-loving gentry were notorious, and Shakspeare's folio was usually laid open
in the great halls of our nobility to entertain their attendants, who devoured at once Shakspeare
and their pasty. Some of those volumes have come down to us, not only with the stains, but
inclosing even the identical piecrusts of the Elizabethan age.

I have thus attempted to develope THE ART OF READING PROVERBS; but have done little more than
indicate the theory, and must leave the skilful student to the delicacy of the practice. I
am anxious to rescue from prevailing prejudices these neglected stores of curious amusement,
and of deep insight into the ways of man, and to point out the bold and concealed truths which
are scattered in these collections. There seems to be no occurrence in human affairs to which
some proverb may not be applied. All knowledge was long aphoristical and traditional, pithily
contracting the discoveries which were to be instantly comprehended and easily retained. Whatever
be the revolutionary state of man, similar principles and like occurrences are returning on
us; and antiquity, whenever it is justly applicable to our times, loses its denomination, and
becomes the truth of our own age. A proverb will often cut the knot which others in vain are
attempting to untie. Many a volume indeed has often been written to demonstrate what a lover
of proverbs could show had long been ascertained by a single one in his favourite collections.

An insurmountable difficulty, which every paræmiographer has encountered, is that of forming
an apt, a ready, and a systematic classification: the moral Linnæus of such a "systema naturæ"
has not yet appeared. Each discovered his predecessor's mode imperfect, but each was doomed
to meet the same fate.[40] The arrangement of proverbs has baffled the ingenuity of every one
of their collectors. Our Ray, after long premeditation, has chosen a system with the appearance
of an alphabetical order; but, as it turns out, his system is no system, and his alphabet is
no alphabet. After ten years' labour, the good man could only arrange his proverbs by commonplaces--by
complete sentences--by phrases or forms of speech--by proverbial similes--and so on. All these
are pursued in alphabetical order, "by the first letter of the most 'material word,' or if
there be more words 'equally material,' by that which usually stands foremost." The most patient
examiner will usually find that he wants the sagacity of the collector to discover that word
which is "the most material," or, "the words equally material." We have to search through all
that multiplicity of divisions, or conjuring boxes, in which this juggler of proverbs pretends
to hide the ball.[41]

A still more formidable objection against a collection of proverbs, for the impatient reader,
is their unreadableness. Taking in succession a multitude of insulated proverbs, their slippery
nature resists all hope of retaining one in a hundred; the study of proverbs must be a frequent
recurrence to a gradual collection of favourite ones, which we ourselves must form. The experience
of life will throw a perpetual freshness over these short and simple texts; every day may furnish
a new commentary; and we may grow old, and find novelty in proverbs by their perpetual application.

There are, perhaps, about twenty thousand proverbs among the nations of Europe: many of these
have spread in their common intercourse; many are borrowed from the ancients, chiefly the Greeks,
who themselves largely took them from the eastern nations. Our own proverbs are too often deficient
in that elegance and ingenuity which are often found in the Spanish and the Italian. Proverbs
frequently enliven conversation, or enter into the business of life in those countries, without
any feeling of vulgarity being associated with them: they are too numerous, too witty, and
too wise to cease to please by their poignancy and their aptitude. I have heard them fall from
the lips of men of letters and of statesmen. When recently the disorderly state of the manufacturers
of Manchester menaced an insurrection, a profound Italian politician observed to me, that it
was not of a nature to alarm a great nation; for that the remedy was at hand, in the proverb
of the Lazzaroni of Naples, Metà consiglio, metà esempio, metà denaro! "Half advice, half example,
half money!" The result confirmed the truth of the proverb, which, had it been known at the
time, might have quieted the honest fears of a great part of the nation.

Proverbs have ceased to be studied or employed in conversation since the time we have derived
our knowledge from books; but in a philosophical age they appear to offer infinite subjects
for speculative curiosity. Originating in various eras, these memorials of manners, of events,
and of modes of thinking, for historical as well as for moral purposes, still retain a strong
hold on our attention. The collected knowledge of successive ages, and of different people,
must always enter into some part of our own! Truth and nature can never be obsolete.

Proverbs embrace the wide sphere of human existence, they take all the colours of life, they
are often exquisite strokes of genius, they delight by their airy sarcasm or their caustic
satire, the luxuriance of their humour, the playfulness of their turn, and even by the elegance
of their imagery, and the tenderness of their sentiment. They give a deep insight into domestic
life, and open for us the heart of man, in all the various states which he may occupy--a frequent
review of proverbs should enter into our readings; and although they are no longer the ornaments
of conversation, they have not ceased to be the treasuries of Thought!

FOOTNOTES:

  [29] Taylor's Translation of Plato's works, vol v. p. 36.

  [30] Shakspeare satirically alludes to the quality of such rhymes in
    his Merchant of Venice, Act v. Sc. 1. Speaking of one

                  "------ whose poesy was
      For all the world like cutler's poetry
      Upon a knife, Love me, and leave me not."

  [31] One of the fruit trenchers, for such these roundels are
    called in the Gent. Mag. for 1798, p. 398, is engraved there, and
    the inscriptions of an entire set given.--See also the Supplement to
    that volume, p. 1187. The author of the "Art of English Poesie,"
    1589, tells us they never contained above one verse, or two at the
    most, but the shorter the better. Two specimens may suffice the
    reader. One, under the symbol of a skull, thus morally discourses:--

      "Content thyself with thine estate,
      And send no poor wight from thy gate;
      For why, this counsel I you give,
      To learne to die, and die to live."

    On another, decorated with pictures of fruit, are these satirical
    lines:--

      "Feed and be fat: hear's pears and plums,
      Will never hurt your teeth or spoil your gums.
      And I wish those girls that painted are,
      No other food than such fine painted fare."

  [32] This constant custom of engraving "posies," as they were
    termed, on rings, is noted by many authors of the Elizabethan era.
    Lilly, in his "Euphues," addresses the ladies for a favourable
    judgment on his work, hoping it will be recorded "as you do the
    posies in your rings, which are always next to the finger not to be
    seene of him that holdeth you by the hand, and yet knowne by you
    that weare them on your hands." They were always engraved withinside
    of the ring. A MS. of the time of Charles I. furnishes us with a
    single posy, of one line, to this effect--"This hath alloy; my love
    is pure." From the same source we have the two following rhyming, or
    "double posies"--

      "Constancy and heaven are round,
      And in this the emblem's found."
      "Weare me out, love shall not waste;
      Love beyond tyme still is placed."

  [33] Heywood's "Dialogue, conteyninge the Number in Effecte of all
    the Proverbes in the English Tunge, 1561." There are more editions
    of this little volume than Warton has noticed. There is some humour
    in his narrative, but his metre and his ribaldry are heavy taxes on
    our curiosity.

  [34] The whole of Tusser's "Five Hundred Pointes of Good Husbandrie,"
    1580, was composed in quaint couplets, long remembered by the
    peasantry for their homely worldly wisdom. One, constructed for the
    bakehouse, runs thus:--

      "New bread is a drivell (waste);
      Much crust is as evil."

    Another for the dairymaid assures her--

      "Good dairie doth pleasure;
      Ill dairie spends treasure."

    Another might rival any lesson of thrift:--

      "Where nothing will last,
      Spare such as thou hast."

  [35] Townshend's Historical Collections, p. 283.

  [36] It was published in 1616: the writer only catches at some
    verbal expressions--as, for instance:--

      The vulgar proverb runs, "The more the merrier."

      The cross,--"Not so! one hand is enough in a purse."

      The proverb, "It is a great way to the bottom of the sea."

      The cross,--"Not so! it is but a stone's cast."

      The proverb, "The pride of the rich makes the labours of the poor."

      The cross,--"Not so! the labours of the poor make the pride of the
      rich."

      The proverb, "He runs far who never turns."

      The cross,--"Not so! he may break his neck in a short course."

  [37] It has been suggested that this whimsical amusement has been
    lately revived, to a certain degree, in the acting of charades
    among juvenile parties.

  [38] Now the punning motto of a noble family.

  [39] At the ROYAL INSTITUTION there is a fine copy of Polydore
    Vergil's "Adagia," with his other work, curious in its day, De
    Inventoribus Rerum, printed by Frobenius, in 1521. The wood-cuts
    of this edition seem to me to be executed with inimitable delicacy,
    resembling a pencilling which Raphael might have envied.

  [40] Since the appearance of the present article, several collections
    of PROVERBS have been attempted. A little unpretending volume,
    entitled "Select Proverbs of all Nations, with Notes and
    Comments, by Thomas Fielding, 1824," is not ill arranged; an
    excellent book for popular reading. The editor of a recent
    miscellaneous compilation, "The Treasury of Knowledge," has
    whimsically bordered the four sides of the pages of a Dictionary
    with as many proverbs. The plan was ingenious, but the proverbs are
    not. Triteness and triviality are fatal to a proverb.

  [41] A new edition of Ray's book, with large additions, was
    published by Bohn, in 1855, under the title of "A Handbook of
    Proverbs." It is a vast collection of "wise saws" of all ages and
    countries.

CONFUSION OF WORDS.

"There is nothing more common," says the lively Voltaire, "than to read and to converse to
no purpose. In history, in morals, in law, in physic, and in divinity, be careful of equivocal
terms." One of the ancients wrote a book to prove that there was no word which did not convey
an ambiguous and uncertain meaning. If we possessed this lost book, our ingenious dictionaries
of "synonyms" would not probably prove its uselessness. Whenever the same word is associated
by the parties with different ideas, they may converse, or controverse, till "the crack of
doom!" This with a little obstinacy and some agility in shifting his ground, makes the fortune
of an opponent. While one party is worried in disentangling a meaning, and the other is winding
and unwinding about him with another, a word of the kind we have mentioned, carelessly or perversely
slipped into an argument, may prolong it for a century or two--as it has happened! Vaugelas,
who passed his whole life in the study of words, would not allow that the sense was to determine
the meaning of words; for, says he, it is the business of words to explain the sense. Kant
for a long while discovered in this way a facility of arguing without end, as at this moment
do our political economists. "I beseech you," exclaims a poetical critic, in the agony of a
confusion of words, on the Pope controversy, "not to ask whether I mean this or that!" Our
critic, positive that he has made himself understood, has shown how a few vague terms may admit
of volumes of vindication. Throw out a word, capable of fifty senses, and you raise fifty parties!
Should some friend of peace enable the fifty to repose on one sense, that innocent word, no
longer ringing the tocsin of a party, would lie in forgetfulness in the Dictionary. Still more
provoking when an identity of meaning is only disguised by different modes of expression, and
when the term has been closely sifted, to their mutual astonishment both parties discover the
same thing lying under the bran and chaff after this heated operation. Plato and Aristotle
probably agreed much better than the opposite parties they raised up imagined; their difference
was in the manner of expression, rather than in the points discussed. The Nominalists and the
Realists, who once filled the world with their brawls, and who from irregular words came to
regular blows, could never comprehend their alternate nonsense; "whether in employing general
terms we use words or names only, or whether there is in nature anything corresponding to what
we mean by a general idea?" The Nominalists only denied what no one in his senses would affirm;
and the Realists only contended for what no one in his senses would deny; a hair's breadth
might have joined what the spirit of party had sundered!

Do we flatter ourselves that the Logomachies of the Nominalists and the Realists terminated
with these scolding schoolmen? Modern nonsense, weighed against the obsolete, may make the
scales tremble for awhile, but it will lose its agreeable quality of freshness, and subside
into an equipoise. We find their spirit still lurking among our own metaphysicians! "Lo! the
Nominalists and the Realists again!" exclaimed my learned friend, Sharon Turner, alluding to
our modern doctrines on abstract ideas, on which there is still a doubt whether they are anything
more than generalising terms.[42] Leibnitz confused his philosophy by the term sufficient reason:
for every existence, for every event, and for every truth there must be a sufficient reason.
This vagueness of language produced a perpetual misconception, and Leibnitz was proud of his
equivocal triumphs in always affording a new interpretation! It is conjectured that he only
employed his term of sufficient reason for the plain simple word of cause. Even Locke, who
has himself so admirably noticed the "abuse of words," has been charged with using vague and
indefinite ones; he has sometimes employed the words reflection, mind, and spirit in so indefinite
a way, that they have confused his philosophy: thus by some ambiguous expressions, our great
metaphysician has been made to establish doctrines fatal to the immutability of moral distinctions.
Even the eagle-eye of the intellectual Newton grew dim in the obscurity of the language of
Locke. We are astonished to discover that two such intellects should not comprehend the same
ideas; for Newton wrote to Locke, "I beg your pardon for representing that you struck at the
root of morality in a principle laid down in your book of Ideas--and that I took you for a
Hobbist!"[43] The difference of opinion between Locke and Reid is in consequence of an ambiguity
in the word principle, as employed by Reid. The removal of a solitary word may cast a luminous
ray over a whole body of philosophy: "If we had called the infinite the indefinite," says Condillac,
in his Traité des Sensations, "by this small change of a word we should have avoided the error
of imagining that we have a positive idea of infinity, from whence so many false reasonings
have been carried on, not only by metaphysicians, but even by geometricians." The word reason
has been used with different meanings by different writers; reasoning and reason have been
often confounded; a man may have an endless capacity for reasoning, without being much influenced
by reason, and to be reasonable, perhaps differs from both! So Moliere tells us,

  Raisonner est l'emploi de toute ma maison;
  Et le raisonnement en bannit la raison!

In this research on "confusion of words," might enter the voluminous history of the founders
of sects, who have usually employed terms which had no meaning attached to them, or were so
ambiguous that their real notions have never been comprehended; hence the most chimerical opinions
have been imputed to founders of sects. We may instance that of the Antinomians, whose remarkable
denomination explains their doctrine, expressing that they were "against law!" Their founder
was John Agricola, a follower of Luther, who, while he lived, had kept Agricola's follies from
exploding, which they did when he asserted that there was no such thing as sin, our salvation
depending on faith, and not on works; and when he declaimed against the Law of God. To what
length some of his sect pushed this verbal doctrine is known; but the real notions of this
Agricola probably never will be! Bayle considered him as a harmless dreamer in theology, who
had confused his head by Paul's controversies with the Jews; but Mosheim, who bestows on this
early reformer the epithets of ventosus and versipellis, windy and crafty! or, as his translator
has it, charges him with "vanity, presumption, and artifice," tells us by the term "law," Agricola
only meant the ten commandments of Moses, which he considered were abrogated by the Gospel,
being designed for the Jews and not for the Christians. Agricola then, by the words the "Law
of God," and "that there was no such thing as sin," must have said one thing and meant another!
This appears to have been the case with most of the divines of the sixteenth century; for even
Mosheim complains of "their want of precision and consistency in expressing their sentiments,
hence their real sentiments have been misunderstood." There evidently prevailed a great "confusion
of words" among them! The grace suffisante and the grace efficace of the Jansenists and the
Jesuits show the shifts and stratagems by which nonsense may be dignified. "Whether all men
received from God sufficient grace for their conversion!" was an inquiry some unhappy metaphysical
theologist set afloat: the Jesuits, according to their worldly system of making men's consciences
easy, affirmed it; but the Jansenists insisted, that this sufficient grace would never be efficacious,
unless accompanied by special grace. "Then the sufficient grace, which is not efficacious,
is a contradiction in terms, and worse, a heresy!" triumphantly cried the Jesuits, exulting
over their adversaries. This "confusion of words" thickened, till the Jesuits introduced in
this logomachy with the Jansenists papal bulls, royal edicts, and a regiment of dragoons! The
Jansenists, in despair, appealed to miracles and prodigies, which they got up for public representation;
but, above all, to their Pascal, whose immortal satire the Jesuits really felt was at once
"sufficient and efficacious," though the dragoons, in settling a "confusion of words," did
not boast of inferior success to Pascal's. Former ages had, indeed, witnessed even a more melancholy
logomachy, in the Homoousion and the Homoiousion! An event which Boileau has immortalised by
some fine verses, which, in his famous satire on L'Equivoque, for reasons best known to the
Sorbonne, were struck out of the text.

  D'une syllabe impie un saint mot augmenté
  Remplit tous les esprits d'aigreurs si meurtrières--
  Tu fis, dans une guerre et si triste et si longue,
  Périr tant de Chrétiens, martyrs d'une diphthongue!

Whether the Son was similar to the substance of the Father, or of the same substance, depended
on the diphthong oi, which was alternately rejected and received. Had they earlier discovered,
what at length they agreed on, that the words denoted what was incomprehensible, it would have
saved thousands, as a witness describes, "from tearing one another to pieces." The great controversy
between Abelard and St. Bernard, when the saint accused the scholastic of maintaining heretical
notions of the Trinity, long agitated the world; yet, now that these confusers of words can
no longer inflame our passions, we wonder how these parties could themselves differ about words
to which we can attach no meaning whatever. There have been few councils or synods where the
omission or addition of a word or a phrase might not have terminated an interminable logomachy!
At the council of Basle, for the convenience of the disputants, John de Secubia drew up a treatise
of undeclined words, chiefly to determine the signification of the particles from, by, but,
and except, which it seems were perpetually occasioning fresh disputes among the Hussites and
the Bohemians. Had Jerome of Prague known, like our Shakspeare, the virtue of an IF, or agreed
with Hobbes, that he should not have been so positive in the use of the verb IS, he might have
been spared from the flames. The philosopher of Malmsbury has declared that "Perhaps Judgment
was nothing else but the composition or joining of two names of things, or modes, by the verb
IS." In modern times the popes have more skilfully freed the church from this "confusion of
words." His holiness, on one occasion, standing in equal terror of the court of France, who
protected the Jesuits, and of the court of Spain, who maintained the cause of the Dominicans,
contrived a phrase, where a comma or a full stop, placed at the beginning or the end, purported
that his holiness tolerated the opinions which he condemned; and when the rival parties despatched
deputations to the court of Rome to plead for the period, or advocate the comma, his holiness,
in this "confusion of words," flung an unpunctuated copy to the parties; nor was it his fault,
but that of the spirit of party, if the rage of the one could not subside into a comma, nor
that of the other close by a full period!

In jurisprudence much confusion has occurred in the uses of the term rights; yet the social
union and human happiness are involved in the precision of the expression. When Montesquieu
laid down, as the active principle of a republic, virtue, it seemed to infer that a republic
was the best of governments. In the defence of his great work he was obliged to define the
term; and it seems that by virtue he only meant political virtue, the love of the country.

In politics, what evils have resulted from abstract terms to which no ideas are affixed,--such
as, "The Equality of Man--the Sovereignty or the Majesty of the People--Loyalty--Reform--even
Liberty herself!--Public Opinion--Public Interest;" and other abstract notions, which have
excited the hatred or the ridicule of the vulgar. Abstract ideas, as sounds, have been used
as watchwords. The combatants will usually be found willing to fight for words to which, perhaps,
not one of them has attached any settled signification. This is admirably touched on by Locke,
in his chapter of "Abuse of Words." "Wisdom, Glory, Grace, &c., are words frequent enough in
every man's mouth; but if a great many of those who use them should be asked what they mean
by them, they would be at a stand, and know not what to answer--a plain proof that though they
have learned those sounds, and have them ready at their tongue's end, yet there are no determined
ideas laid up in their minds which are to be expressed to others by them."

When the American exclaimed that he was not represented in the House of Commons, because he
was not an elector, he was told that a very small part of the people of England were electors.
As they could not call this an actual representation, they invented a new name for it, and
called it a virtual one. It imposed on the English nation, who could not object that others
should be taxed rather than themselves; but with the Americans it was a sophism! and this virtual
representation, instead of an actual one, terminated in our separation; "which," says Mr. Flood,
"at the time appeared to have swept away most of our glory and our territory; forty thousand
lives, and one hundred millions of treasure!"

That fatal expression which Rousseau had introduced, l'Egalité des Hommes, which finally involved
the happiness of a whole people, had he lived he had probably shown how ill his country had
understood. He could only have referred in his mind to political equality, but not an equality
of possessions, of property, of authority, destructive of social order and of moral duties,
which must exist among every people. "Liberty," "Equality," and "Reform" (innocent words!)
sadly ferment the brains of those who cannot affix any definite notions to them; they are like
those chimerical fictions in law, which declare the "sovereign immortal, proclaim his ubiquity
in various places," and irritate the feelings of the populace, by assuming that "the king can
never do wrong!" In the time of James the Second "it is curious," says Lord Russell, "to read
the conference between the Houses on the meaning of the words 'deserted' and 'abdicated,' and
the debates in the Lords whether or no there is an original contract between king and people."
The people would necessarily decide that "kings derived their power from them;" but kings were
once maintained by a "right divine," a "confusion of words," derived from two opposite theories,
and both only relatively true. When we listen so frequently to such abstract terms as "the
majesty of the people," "the sovereignty of the people," whence the inference that "all power
is derived from the people," we can form no definite notions: it is "a confusion of words,"
contradicting all the political experience which our studies or our observations furnish; for
sovereignty is established to rule, to conduct, and to settle the vacillations and quick passions
of the multitude. Public opinion expresses too often the ideas of one party in place; and public
interest those of another party out! Political axioms, from the circumstance of having the
notions attached to them unsettled, are applied to the most opposite ends! "In the time of
the French Directory," observes an Italian philosopher of profound views, "in the revolution
of Naples, the democratic faction pronounced that 'Every act of a tyrannical government is
in its origin illegal;' a proposition which at first sight seems self-evident, but which went
to render all existing laws impracticable." The doctrine of the illegality of the acts of a
tyrant was proclaimed by Brutus and Cicero, in the name of the senate, against the populace,
who had favoured Cæsar's perpetual dictatorship; and the populace of Paris availed themselves
of it, against the National Assembly.

This "confusion of words," in time-serving politics, has too often confounded right and wrong;
and artful men, driven into a corner, and intent only on its possession, have found no difficulty
in solving doubts, and reconciling contradictions. Our own history in revolutionary times abounds
with dangerous examples from all parties; of specious hypotheses for compliance with the government
of the day or the passions of parliament. Here is an instance in which the subtle confuser
of words pretended to substitute two consciences, by utterly depriving a man of any! When the
unhappy Charles the First pleaded that to pass the bill of attainder against the Earl of Strafford
was against his conscience, that remarkable character of "boldness and impiety," as Clarendon
characterizes Williams, Archbishop of York, on this argument of conscience (a simple word enough),
demonstrated "that there were two sorts of conscience, public and private; that his public
conscience as a king might dispense with his private conscience as a man!" Such was the ignominious
argument which decided the fate of that great victim of State! It was an impudent "confusion
of words" when Prynne (in order to quiet the consciences of those who were uneasy at warring
with the king) observed that the statute of twenty-fifth Edward the Third ran in the singular
number--"If a man shall levy war against the king, and therefore could not be extended to the
houses, who are many and public persons." Later, we find Sherlock blest with the spirit of
Williams, the Archbishop of York, whom we have just left. When some did not know how to charge
and to discharge themselves of the oaths to James the Second and to William the Third, this
confounder of words discovered that there were two rights, as the other had that there were
two consciences; one was a providential right, and the other a legal right; one person might
very righteously claim and take a thing, and another as righteously hold and keep it; but that
whoever got the better had the providential right by possession; and since all authority comes
from God, the people were obliged to transfer their allegiance to him as a king of God's making;
so that he who had the providential right necessarily had the legal one! a very simple discovery,
which must, however, have cost him some pains; for this confounder of words was himself confounded
by twelve answers by non-jurors! A French politician of this stamp recently was suspended from
his lectureship for asserting that the possession of the soil was a right; by which principle,
any king reigning over a country, whether by treachery, crime, and usurpation, was a legitimate
sovereign. For this convenient principle the lecturer was tried, and declared not guilty--by
persons who have lately found their advantage in a confusion of words. In treaties between
nations, a "confusion of words" has been more particularly studied; and that negotiator has
conceived himself most dexterous who, by this abuse of words, has retained an arrière-pensée
which may fasten or loosen the ambiguous expression he had so cautiously and so finely inlaid
in his mosaic of treachery. A scene of this nature I draw out of "Mesnager's Negociation with
the Court of England." When that secret agent of Louis the Fourteenth was negotiating a peace,
an insuperable difficulty arose respecting the acknowledgment of the Hanoverian succession.
It was absolutely necessary, on this delicate point, to quiet the anxiety of the English public
and our allies; but though the French king was willing to recognise Anne's title to the throne,
yet the settlement in the house of Hanover was incompatible with French interests and French
honour. Mesnager told Lord Bolingbroke that "the king, his master, would consent to any such
article, looking the other way, as might disengage him from the obligation of that agreement,
as the occasion should present." This ambiguous language was probably understood by Lord Bolingbroke:
at the next conference his lordship informed the secret agent "that the queen could not admit
of any explanations, whatever her intentions might be; that the succession was settled by act
of parliament; that as to the private sentiments of the queen, or of any about her, he could
say nothing." "All this was said with such an air, as to let me understand that he gave a secret
assent to what I had proposed, &c.; but he desired me to drop the discourse." Thus two great
negotiators, both equally urgent to conclude the treaty, found an insuperable obstacle occur,
which neither could control. Two honest men would have parted; but the "skilful confounder
of words," the French diplomatist, hit on an expedient; he wrote the words which afterwards
appeared in the preliminaries, "That Louis the Fourteenth will acknowledge the Queen of Great
Britain in that quality, as also the succession of the crown according to the PRESENT SETTLEMENT."
"The English agent," adds the Frenchman, "would have had me add--on the house of Hanover, but
this I entreated him not to desire of me." The term PRESENT SETTLEMENT, then, was that article
which was LOOKING THE OTHER WAY, to disengage his master from the obligation of that agreement,
as occasion should present! that is, that Louis the Fourteenth chose to understand by the PRESENT
SETTLEMENT the old one, by which the British crown was to be restored to the Pretender! Anne
and the English nation were to understand it in their own sense--as the new one, which transferred
it to the house of Hanover!

When politicians cannot rely upon each other's interpretation of one of the commonest words
in our language, how can they possibly act together? The Bishop of Winchester has proved this
observation, by the remarkable anecdote of the Duke of Portland and Mr. Pitt, who, with a view
to unite parties, were to hold a conference on FAIR and EQUAL terms. His grace did not object
to the word FAIR, but the word EQUAL was more specific and limited; and for a necessary preliminary,
he requested Mr. Pitt to inform him what he understood by the word EQUAL? Whether Pitt was
puzzled by the question, or would not deliver up an arrière-pensée, he put off the explanation
to the conference. But the duke would not meet Mr. Pitt till the word was explained; and this
important negotiation was broken off by not explaining a simple word which appeared to require
no explanation.

There is nothing more fatal in language than to wander from the popular acceptation of words;
and yet this popular sense cannot always accord with precision of ideas, for it is itself subject
to great changes.

Another source, therefore, of the abuse of words, is that mutability to which, in the course
of time, the verbal edifice, as well as more substantial ones, is doomed. A familiar instance
presents itself in the titles of tyrant, parasite, and sophist, originally honourable distinctions.
The abuses of dominion made the appropriate title of kings odious; the title of a magistrate,
who had the care of the public granaries of corn, at length was applied to a wretched flatterer
for a dinner; and absurd philosophers occasioned a mere denomination to become a by-name. To
employ such terms in their primitive sense would now confuse all ideas; yet there is an affectation
of erudition which has frequently revived terms sanctioned by antiquity. Bishop Watson entitled
his vindication of the Bible "an apology:" this word, in its primitive sense, had long been
lost for the multitude, whom he particularly addressed in this work, and who could only understand
it in the sense they are accustomed to. Unquestionably, many of its readers have imagined that
the bishop was offering an excuse for a belief in the Bible, instead of a vindication of its
truth. The word impertinent, by the ancient jurisconsults, or law-counsellors, who gave their
opinion on cases, was used merely in opposition to pertinent--ratio pertinens is a pertinent
reason, that is, a reason pertaining to the cause in question, and a ratio impertinens, an
impertinent reason, is an argument not pertaining to the subject.[44] Impertinent then originally
meant neither absurdity nor rude intrusion, as it does in our present popular sense. The learned
Arnauld having characterised a reply of one of his adversaries by the epithet impertinent,
when blamed for the freedom of his language, explained his meaning by giving this history of
the word, which applies to our own language. Thus also with us the word indifferent has entirely
changed: an historian, whose work was indifferently written, would formerly have claimed our
attention. In the Liturgy it is prayed that "magistrates may indifferently minister justice."
Indifferently originally meant impartially. The word extravagant, in its primitive signification,
only signified to digress from the subject. The Decretals, or those letters from the popes
deciding on points of ecclesiastical discipline, were at length incorporated with the canon
law, and were called extravagant by wandering out of the body of the canon law, being confusedly
dispersed through that collection. When Luther had the Decretals publicly burnt at Wittemberg,
the insult was designed for the pope, rather than as a condemnation of the canon law itself.
Suppose, in the present case, two persons of opposite opinions. The catholic, who had said
that the decretals were extravagant, might not have intended to depreciate them, or make any
concession to the Lutheran. What confusion of words has the common sense of the Scotch metaphysicians
introduced into philosophy! There are no words, perhaps, in the language which may be so differently
interpreted; and Professor Dugald Stewart has collected, in a curious note in the second volume
of his "Philosophy of the Human Mind," a singular variety of its opposite significations. The
Latin phrase, sensus communis, may, in various passages of Cicero, be translated by our phrase
common sense; but, on other occasions, it means something different; the sensus communis of
the schoolmen is quite another thing, and is synonymous with conception, and referred to the
seat of intellect; with Sir John Davies, in his curious metaphysical poem, common sense is
used as imagination. It created a controversy with Beattie and Reid; and Reid, who introduced
this vague ambiguous phrase in philosophical language, often understood the term in its ordinary
acceptation. This change of the meaning of words, which is constantly recurring in metaphysical
disputes, has made that curious but obscure science liable to this objection of Hobbes, "with
many words making nothing understood!"

Controversies have been keenly agitated about the principles of morals, which resolve entirely
into verbal disputes, or at most into questions of arrangement and classification, of little
comparative moment to the points at issue. This observation of Mr. Dugald Stewart's might be
illustrated by the fate of the numerous inventors of systems of thinking or morals, who have
only employed very different and even opposite terms in appearance to express the same thing.
Some, by their mode of philosophising, have strangely unsettled the words self-interest and
self-love; and their misconceptions have sadly misled the votaries of these systems of morals;
as others also by such vague terms as "utility, fitness," &c.

When Epicurus asserted that the sovereign good consisted in pleasure, opposing the unfeeling
austerity of the Stoics by the softness of pleasurable emotions, his principle was soon disregarded;
while his word, perhaps chosen in the spirit of paradox, was warmly adopted by the sensualist.
Epicurus, of whom Seneca has drawn so beautiful a domestic scene, in whose garden a loaf, a
Cytheridean cheese, and a draught which did not inflame thirst,[45] was the sole banquet, would
have started indignantly at

  The fattest hog in Epicurus' sty!

Such are the facts which illustrate that principle in "the abuse of words," which Locke calls
"an affected obscurity arising from applying old words to new, or unusual significations."

It was the same "confusion of words" which gave rise to the famous sect of the Sadducees. The
master of its founder Sadoc, in his moral purity, was desirous of a disinterested worship of
the Deity; he would not have men like slaves, obedient from the hope of reward or the fear
of punishment. Sadoc drew a quite contrary inference from the intention of his master, concluding
that there were neither rewards nor punishments in a future state. The result is a parallel
to the fate of Epicurus. The morality of the master of Sadoc was of the most pure and elevated
kind, but in the "confusion of words," the libertines adopted them for their own purposes--and
having once assumed that neither rewards nor punishments existed in the after-state, they proceeded
to the erroneous consequence that man perished with his own dust!

The plainest words, by accidental associations, may suggest the most erroneous conceptions,
and have been productive of the grossest errors. In the famous Bangorian controversy, one of
the writers excites a smile by a complaint, arising from his views of the signification of
a plain word, whose meaning he thinks had been changed by the contending parties. He says,
"the word country, like a great many others, such as church and kingdom, is, by the Bishop
of Bangor's leave, become to signify a collection of ideas very different from its original
meaning; with some it implies party, with others private opinion, and with most interest, and
perhaps, in time, may signify some other country. When this good innocent word has been tossed
backwards and forwards a little longer, some new reformer of language may arise to reduce it
to its primitive signification--the real interest of Great Britain!" The antagonist of this
controversialist probably retorted on him his own term of the real interest, which might be
a very opposite one, according to their notions! It has been said, with what truth I know not,
that it was by a mere confusion of words that Burke was enabled to alarm the great Whig families,
by showing them their fate in that of the French noblesse; they were misled by the similitude
of names. The French noblesse had as little resemblance to our nobility as they have to the
Mandarins of China. However it may be in this case, certain it is that the same terms misapplied
have often raised those delusive notions termed false analogies. It was long imagined in this
country, that the parliaments of France were somewhat akin to our own; but these assemblies
were very differently constituted, consisting only of lawyers in courts of law. A misnomer
confuses all argument. There is a trick which consists in bestowing good names on bad things.
Vices, thus veiled, are introduced to us as virtues, according to an old poet,

  As drunkenness, good-fellowship we call?

     SIR THOMAS WIAT.

Or the reverse, when loyalty may be ridiculed, as

  The right divine of kings--to govern wrong!

The most innocent recreations, such as the drama, dancing, dress, have been anathematised by
puritans, while philosophers have written elaborate treatises in their defence--the enigma
is solved, when we discover that these words suggested a set of opposite notions to each.

But the nominalists and the realists, and the doctores fundatissimi, resolutissimi, refulgentes,
profundi, and extatici, have left this heirloom of logomachy to a race as subtle and irrefragable!
An extraordinary scene has recently been performed by a new company of actors, in the modern
comedy of Political Economy; and the whole dialogue has been carried on in an inimitable "confusion
of words!" This reasoning and unreasoning fraternity never use a term as a term, but for an
explanation, and which employed by them all, signifies opposite things, but never the plainest!
Is it not, therefore, strange that they cannot yet tell us what are riches? what is rent? what
is value? Monsieur Say, the most sparkling of them all, assures us that the English writers
are obscure, by their confounding, like Smith, the denomination of labour. The vivacious Gaul
cries out to the grave Briton, Mr. Malthus, "If I consent to employ your word labour, you must
understand me," so and so! Mr. Malthus says, "Commodities are not exchanged for commodities
only; they are also exchanged for labour;" and when the hypochondriac Englishman, with dismay,
foresees "the glut of markets," and concludes that we may produce more than we can consume,
the paradoxical Monsieur Say discovers that "commodities" is a wrong word, for it gives a wrong
idea; it should be "productions;" for his axiom is, that "productions can only be purchased
with productions." Money, it seems, according to dictionary ideas, has no existence in his
vocabulary; for Monsieur Say has formed a sort of Berkleian conception of wealth being immaterial,
while we confine our views to its materiality. Hence ensues from this "confusion of words,"
this most brilliant paradox,--that "a glutted market is not a proof that we produce too much
but that we produce too little! for in that case there is not enough produced to exchange with
what is produced!" As Frenchmen excel in politeness and impudence, Monsieur Say adds, "I revere
Adam Smith; he is my master; but this first of political economists did not understand all
the phenomena of production and consumption." We, who remain uninitiated in this mystery of
explaining the operations of trade by metaphysical ideas, and raising up theories to conduct
those who never theorise, can only start at the "confusion of words," and leave this blessed
inheritance to our sons, if ever the science survive the logomachy.

Caramuel, a famous Spanish bishop, was a grand architect of words. Ingenious in theory, his
errors were confined to his practice: he said a great deal and meant nothing; and by an exact
dimension of his intellect, taken at the time, it appeared that "he had genius in the eighth
degree, eloquence in the fifth, but judgment only in the second!" This great man would not
read the ancients; for he had a notion that the moderns must have acquired all they possessed,
with a good deal of their own "into the bargain." Two hundred and sixty-two works, differing
in breadth and length, besides his manuscripts, attest, that if the world would read his writings,
they could need no other; for which purpose his last work always referred to the preceding
ones, and could never be comprehended till his readers possessed those which were to follow.
As he had the good sense to perceive that metaphysicians abound in obscure and equivocal terms,
to avoid this "confusion of words," he invented a jargon of his own; and to make "confusion
worse confounded," projected grammars and vocabularies by which we were to learn it; but it
is supposed that he was the only man who understood himself. He put every author in despair
by the works which he announced. This famous architect of words, however, built more labyrinths
than he could always get out of, notwithstanding his "cabalistical grammar," and his "audacious
grammar."[46] Yet this great Caramuel, the critics have agreed, was nothing but a puffy giant,
with legs too weak for his bulk, and only to be accounted as a hero amidst a "confusion of words."

Let us dread the fate of Caramuel! and before we enter into discussion with the metaphysician,
first settle what he means by the nature of ideas; with the politician, his notion of liberty
and equality; with the divine, what he deems orthodox; with the political economist, what he
considers to be value and rent! By this means we may avoid, what is perpetually recurring,
that extreme laxity or vagueness of words, which makes every writer, or speaker, complain of
his predecessor, and attempt sometimes, not in the best temper, to define and to settle the
signification of what the witty South calls "those rabble-charming words, which carry so much
wildfire wrapt up in them."

FOOTNOTES:

  [42] Turner's "History of England," i. 514

  [43] We owe this curious unpublished letter to the zeal and care of
    Professor Dugald Stewart, in his excellent "Dissertations."

  [44] It is still a Chancery word. An answer in Chancery, &c., is
    referred for impertinence, reported impertinent--and the
    impertinence ordered to be struck out, meaning only what is
    immaterial or superfluous, tending to unnecessary expense. I am
    indebted for this explanation to my friend, Mr. Merivale; and to
    another learned friend, formerly in that court, who describes its
    meaning as "an excess of words or matter in the pleadings," and who
    has received many an official fee for "expunging impertinence,"
    leaving, however, he acknowledges, a sufficient quantity to make the
    lawyers ashamed of their verbosity.

  [45] Sen. Epist. 21.

  [46] Baillet gives the dates and plans of these grammars. The
    cabalistic was published in Bruxelles, 1642, in 12mo. The
    audacious was in folio, printed at Frankfort, 1654.--Jugemens des
    Savans. Tome ii. 3me partie.

POLITICAL NICKNAMES.

Political calumny is said to have been reduced into an art, like that of logic, by the Jesuits.
This itself may be a political calumny! A powerful body, who themselves had practised the artifices
of calumniators, may, in their turn, often have been calumniated. The passage in question was
drawn out of one of the classical authors used in their colleges. Busembaum, a German Jesuit,
had composed, in duodecimo, a "Medulla Theologiæ moralis," where, among other casuistical propositions,
there was found lurking in this old Jesuit's "marrow" one which favoured regicide and assassination!
Fifty editions of the book had passed unnoticed; till a new one appearing at the critical moment
of Damien's attempt, the duodecimo of the old scholastic Jesuit, which had now been amplified
by its commentators into two folios, was considered not merely ridiculous, but dangerous. It
was burnt at Toulouse, in 1757, by order of the parliament, and condemned at Paris. An Italian
Jesuit published an "apology" for this theory of assassination, and the same flames devoured
it! Whether Busembaum deserved the honour bestowed on his ingenuity, the reader may judge by
the passage itself.

"Whoever would ruin a person, or a government, must begin this operation by spreading calumnies,
to defame the person or the government; for unquestionably the calumniator will always find
a great number of persons inclined to believe him, or to side with him; it therefore follows,
that whenever the object of such calumnies is once lowered in credit by such means, he will
soon lose the reputation and power founded on that credit, and sink under the permanent and
vindictive attacks of the calumniator." This is the politics of Satan--the evil principle which
regulates so many things in this world. The enemies of the Jesuits have formed a list of great
names who had become the victims of such atrocious Machiavelism.[47]

This has been one of the arts practised by all political parties. Their first weak invention
is to attach to a new faction a contemptible or an opprobrious nickname. In the history of
the revolutions of Europe, whenever a new party has at length established its independence,
the original denomination which had been fixed on them, marked by the passions of the party
which bestowed it, strangely contrasts with the state of the party finally established!

The first revolutionists of Holland incurred the contemptuous name of "Les Gueux," or the Beggars.
The Duchess of Parma inquiring about them, the Count of Barlamont scornfully described them
to be of this class; and it was flattery of the great which gave the name currency. The Hollanders
accepted the name as much in defiance as with indignation, and acted up to it. Instead of brooches
in their hats, they wore little wooden platters, such as beggars used, and foxes' tails instead
of feathers. On the targets of some of these Gueux they inscribed "Rather Turkish than Popish!"
and had the print of a cock crowing, out of whose mouth was a label, Vive les Gueux par tout
le monde! which was everywhere set up, and was the favourite sign of their inns. The Protestants
in France, after a variety of nicknames to render them contemptible--such as Christodins, because
they would only talk about Christ, similar to our Puritans; and Parpaillots, or Parpirolles,
a small base coin, which was odiously applied to them--at length settled in the well-known
term of Huguenots, which probably was derived, as the Dictionnaire de Trévoux suggests, from
their hiding themselves in secret places, and appearing at night, like King Hugon, the great
hobgoblin of France. It appears that the term has been preserved by an earthen vessel without
feet, used in cookery, which served the Huguenots on meagre days to dress their meat, and to
avoid observation; a curious instance, where a thing still in use proves the obscure circumstance
of its origin.

The atrocious insurrection, called La Jacquerie, was a term which originated in cruel derision.
When John of France was a prisoner in England, his kingdom appears to have been desolated by
its wretched nobles, who, in the indulgence of their passions, set no limits to their luxury
and their extortion. They despoiled their peasantry without mercy, and when these complained,
and even reproached this tyrannical nobility with having forsaken their sovereign, they were
told that Jacque bon homme must pay for all. But Jack good-man came forward in person--a leader
appeared under this fatal name, and the peasants revolting in madness, and being joined by
all the cut-throats and thieves of Paris, at once pronounced condemnation on every gentleman
in France! Froissart has the horrid narrative; twelve thousand of these Jacques bon hommes
expiated their crimes; but the Jacquerie, who had received their first appellation in derision,
assumed it as their nom de guerre.

In the spirited Memoirs of the Duke of Guise, written by himself, of his enterprise against
the kingdom of Naples, we find a curious account of this political art of marking people by
odious nicknames. "Gennaro and Vicenzo," says the duke, "cherished underhand that aversion
the rascality had for the better sort of citizens and civiller people, who, by the insolencies
they suffered from these, not unjustly hated them. The better class inhabiting the suburbs
of the Virgin were called black cloaks, and the ordinary sort of people took the name of lazars,
both in French and English an old word for leprous beggar, and hence the lazaroni of Naples."
We can easily conceive the evil eye of a lazar when he encountered a black cloak! The Duke
adds--"Just as, at the beginning of the revolution, the revolters in Flanders formerly took
that of beggars; those of Guienne, that of eaters; those of Normandy that of bare-feet; and
of Beausse and Soulogne, of wooden-pattens." In the late French revolution, we observed the
extremes indulged by both parties chiefly concerned in revolution--the wealthy and the poor!
The rich, who, in derision, called their humble fellow-citizens by the contemptuous term of
sans-culottes, provoked a reacting injustice from the populace, who, as a dreadful return for
only a slight, rendered the innocent term of aristocrate a signal for plunder or slaughter!

It is a curious fact that the French verb fronder, as well the noun frondeur, are used to describe
those who condemn the measures of government; and more extensively, designates any hyperbolical
and malignant criticism, or any sort of condemnation. These words have only been introduced
into the language since the intrigues of Cardinal de Retz succeeded in raising a faction against
Cardinal Mazarin, known in French history by the nickname of the Frondeurs, or the Slingers.
It originated in pleasantry, although it became the password for insurrection in France, and
the odious name of a faction. A wit observed, that the parliament were like those school-boys,
who fling their stones in the pits of Paris, and as soon as they see the Lieutenant Civil,
run away; but are sure to collect again directly he disappears. The comparison was lively,
and formed the burthen of songs; and afterwards, when affairs were settled between the king
and the parliament, it was more particularly applied to the faction of Cardinal de Retz, who
still held out. "We encouraged the application," says de Retz; "for we observed that the distinction
of a name heated the minds of people; and one evening we resolved to wear hat-strings in the
form of slings. A hatter, who might be trusted with the secret, made a great number as a new
fashion, and which were worn by many who did not understand the joke; we ourselves were the
last to adopt them, that the invention might not appear to have come from us. The effect of
this trifle was immense; every fashionable article was now to assume the shape of a sling;
bread, hats, gloves, handkerchiefs, fans, &c.; and we ourselves became more in fashion by this
folly, than by what was essential." This revolutionary term was never forgotten by the French,
a circumstance which might have been considered as prognostic of that after-revolution, which
de Retz had the imagination to project, but not the daring to establish. We see, however, this
great politician, confessing the advantages his party derived by encouraging the application
of a by-name, which served "to heat the minds of people."

It is a curious circumstance that I should have to recount in this chapter on "Political Nicknames"
a familiar term with all lovers of art, that of Silhouette! This is well understood as a black
profile; but it is more extraordinary that a term so universally adopted should not be found
in any dictionary, either in that of L'Académie, or in Todd's, and has not even been preserved,
where it is quite indispensable, in Millin's Dictionnaire des Beaux-Arts! It is little suspected
that this innocent term originated in a political nickname! Silhouette was a minister of state
in France in 1759; that period was a critical one; the treasury was in an exhausted condition,
and Silhouette, a very honest man, who would hold no intercourse with financiers or loan-mongers,
could contrive no other expedient to prevent a national bankruptcy, than excessive economy
and interminable reform! Paris was not the metropolis, any more than London, where a Plato
or a Zeno could long be minister of state without incurring all the ridicule of the wretched
wits! At first they pretended to take his advice, merely to laugh at him:--they cut their coats
shorter, and wore them without sleeves; they turned their gold snuff-boxes into rough wooden
ones; and the new-fashioned portraits were now only profiles of a face, traced by a black pencil
on the shadow cast by a candle on white paper! All the fashions assumed an air of niggardly
economy, till poor Silhouette was driven into retirement, with all his projects of savings
and reforms; but he left his name to describe the most economical sort of portrait, and one
as melancholy as his own fate!

This political artifice of appropriating cant terms, or odious nicknames, could not fail to
flourish among a people so perpetually divided by contending interests as ourselves; every
party with us have had their watchword, which has served either to congregate themselves, or
to set on the ban-dogs of one faction to worry and tear those of another. We practised it early,
and we find it still prospering! The Puritan of Elizabeth's reign survives to this hour; the
trying difficulties which that wise sovereign had to overcome in settling the national religion,
found no sympathy in either of the great divisions of her people; she retained as much of the
catholic rites as might be decorous in the new religion, and sought to unite, and not to separate,
her children. John Knox, in the spirit of charity, declared, that "she was neither gude protestant,
nor yet resolute papist; let the world judge quilk is the third."

A jealous party arose, who were for reforming the reformation. In their attempt at more than
human purity, they obtained the nickname of Puritans; and from their fastidiousness about very
small matters, Precisians; these Drayton characterises as persons that for a painted glass
window would pull down the whole church. At that early period these nicknames were soon used
in an odious sense; for Warner, a poet in the reign of Elizabeth, says,--

  If hypocrites why puritaines we term be asked, in breese,
  'Tis but an ironised terme; good-fellow so spels theese!

Honest Fuller, who knew that many good men were among these Puritans, wished to decline the
term altogether, under the less offensive one of Non-conformists. But the fierce and the fiery
of this party, in Charles the First's time had been too obtrusive not to fully merit the ironical
appellative; and the peaceful expedient of our moderator dropped away with the page in which
it was written. The people have frequently expressed their own notions of different parliaments
by some apt nickname. In Richard the Second's time, to express their dislike of the extraordinary
and irregular proceedings of the lords against the sovereign, as well as their sanguinary measures,
they called it "The wonder-working and the unmerciful parliament." In Edward the Third's reign,
when the Black Prince was yet living, the parliament, for having pursued with severity the
party of the Duke of Lancaster, was so popular, that the people distinguished it as the good
parliament. In Henry the Third's time, the parliament opposing the king, was called "Parliamentum
insanum," the mad parliament, because the lords came armed to insist on the confirmation of
the great charter. A Scottish parliament, from its perpetual shiftings from place to place
was ludicrously nicknamed the running parliament; in the same spirit we had our long parliament.
The nickname of Pensioner parliament stuck to the House of Commons which sate nearly eighteen
years without dissolution, under Charles the Second; and others have borne satirical or laudatory
epithets. So true it is, as old Holingshed observed, "The common people will manie times give
such bie names as seemeth best liking to themselves." It would be a curious speculation to
discover the sources of the popular feeling; influenced by delusion, or impelled by good sense!

The exterminating political nickname of malignant darkened the nation through the civil wars:
it was a proscription--and a list of good and bad lords was read by the leaders of the first
tumults. Of all these inventions, this diabolical one was most adapted to exasperate the animosities
of the people, so often duped by names. I have never detected the active man of faction who
first hit on this odious brand for persons, but the period when the word changed its ordinary
meaning was early; Charles, in 1642, retorts on the parliamentarians the opprobrious distinction,
as "The true malignant party which has contrived and countenanced those barbarous tumults."
And the royalists pleaded for themselves, that the hateful designation was ill applied to them:
"for by malignity you denote," said they, "activity in doing evil, whereas we have always been
on the suffering side in our persons, credits, and estates;" but the parliamentarians, "grinning
a ghastly smile," would reply, that "the royalists would have been malignant had they proved
successful." The truth is, that malignancy meant with both parties any opposition of opinion.
At the same period the offensive distinctions of roundheads and cavaliers supplied the people
with party names, who were already provided with so many religious as well as civil causes
of quarrel; the cropt heads of the sullen sectaries and the people, were the origin of the
derisory nickname; the splendid elegance and the romantic spirit of the royalists long awed
the rabble, who in their mockery could brand them by no other appellation than one in which
their bearers gloried. In the distracted times of early revolution, any nickname, however vague,
will fully answer a purpose, although neither those who are blackened by the odium, nor those
who cast it, can define the hateful appellative. When the term of delinquents came into vogue,
it expressed a degree and species of guilt, says Hume, not exactly known or ascertained. It
served, however, the end of those revolutionists who had coined it, by involving any person
in, or colouring any action by, delinquency; and many of the nobility and gentry were, without
any questions being asked, suddenly discovered to have committed the crime of delinquency!
Whether honest Fuller be facetious or grave on this period of nicknaming parties I will not
decide; but, when he tells us that there was another word which was introduced into our nation
at this time, I think at least that the whole passage is an admirable commentary on this party
vocabulary. "Contemporary with malignants is the word plunder, which some make of Latin original,
from planum dare, to level, to plane all to nothing! Others of Dutch extraction, as if it were
to plume, or pluck the feathers of a bird to the bare skin.[48] Sure I am we first heard of
it in the Swedish wars; and if the name and thing be sent back from whence it came few English
eyes would weep thereat." All England had wept at the introduction of the word. The rump was
the filthy nickname of an odious faction--the history of this famous appellation, which was
at first one of horror, till it afterwards became one of derision and contempt, must be referred
to another place. The rump became a perpetual whetstone for the loyal wits,[49] till at length
its former admirers, the rabble themselves, in town and country, vied with each other in "burning
rumps" of beef, which were hung by chains on a gallows with a bonfire underneath, and proved
how the people, like children, come at length to make a plaything of that which was once their
bugbear.

Charles the Second, during the short holiday of the restoration--all holidays seem short!--and
when he and the people were in good humour, granted anything to every one,--the mode of "Petitions"
got at length very inconvenient, and the king in council declared that this petitioning was
"A method set on foot by ill men to promote discontents among the people," and enjoined his
loving subjects not to subscribe them. The petitioners, however, persisted--when a new party
rose to express their abhorrence of petitioning; both parties nicknamed each other the petitioners
and the abhorrers! Their day was short, but fierce; the petitioners, however weak in their
cognomen, were far the bolder of the two, for the commons were with them, and the abhorrers
had expressed by their term rather the strength of their inclinations than of their numbers.
Charles the Second said to a petitioner from Taunton, "How dare you deliver me such a paper?"
"Sir," replied the petitioner from Taunton, "my name is DARE!" A saucy reply, for which he
was tried, fined, and imprisoned; when lo! the commons petitioned again to release the petitioner!
"The very name," says Hume, "by which each party denominated its antagonists discovers the
virulence and rancour which prevailed; for besides petitioner and abhorrer, this year is remarkable
for being the epoch of the well-known epithets of whig and tory." These silly terms of reproach,
whig and tory, are still preserved among us, as if the palladium of British liberty was guarded
by these exotic names, for they are not English, which the parties so invidiously bestow on
each other. They are ludicrous enough in their origin. The friends of the court and the advocates
of lineal succession were, by the republican party, branded with the title of tories, which
was the name of certain Irish robbers;[50] while the court party in return could find no other
revenge than by appropriating to the covenanters and the republicans of that class the name
of the Scotch beverage of sour milk, whose virtue they considered so expressive of their dispositions,
and which is called whigg. So ridiculous in their origin were these pernicious nicknames, which
long excited feuds and quarrels in domestic life, and may still be said to divide into two
great parties this land of political freedom. But nothing becomes obsolete in political factions,
and the meaner and more scandalous the name affixed by one party to another the more it becomes
not only their rallying cry or their password, but even constitutes their glory. Thus the Hollanders
long prided themselves on the humiliating nickname of "Les Gueux:" the protestants of France
on the scornful one of the Huguenots; the non-conformists in England on the mockery of the
puritan; and all parties have perpetuated their anger by their inglorious names. Swift was
well aware of this truth in political history: "each party," says that sagacious observer,
"grows proud of that appellation which their adversaries at first intended as a reproach; of
this sort were the Guelphs and the Ghibellines, Huguenots and Cavaliers."

Nor has it been only by nicknaming each other by derisory or opprobrious terms that parties
have been marked, but they have also worn a livery, and practised distinctive manners. What
sufferings did not Italy endure for a long series of years under those fatal party-names of
the Guelphs and the Ghibellines; alternately the victors and the vanquished, the beautiful
land of Italy drank the blood of her children. Italy, like Greece, opens a moving picture of
the hatreds and jealousies of small republics; her Bianchi and her Neri, her Guelphs and her
Ghibellines! In Bologna, two great families once shook that city with their divisions; the
Pepoli adopted the French interests; the Maluezzi the Spanish. It was incurring some danger
to walk the streets of Bologna, for the Pepoli wore their feathers on the right side of their
caps, and the Maluezzi on the left. Such was the party-hatred of the two great Italian factions,
that they carried their rancour even into their domestic habits; at table the Guelphs placed
their knives and spoons longwise, and the Ghibellines across; the one cut their bread across,
the other longwise. Even in cutting an orange they could not agree; for the Guelph cut his
orange horizontally, and the Ghibelline downwards. Children were taught these artifices of
faction--their hatreds became traditional, and thus the Italians perpetuated the full benefits
of their party-spirit from generation to generation.[51]

Men in private life go down to their graves with some unlucky name, not received in baptism,
but more descriptive and picturesque; and even ministers of state have winced at a political
christening. Malagrida the Jesuit and Jemmy Twitcher were nicknames which made one of our ministers
odious, and another contemptible.[52] The Earl of Godolphin caught such fire at that of Volpone,
that it drove him into the opposite party, for the vindictive purpose of obtaining the impolitical
prosecution of Sacheverell, who, in his famous sermon, had first applied it to the earl, and
unluckily it had stuck to him.

"Faction," says Lord Orford, "is as capricious as fortune; wrongs, oppression, the zeal of
real patriots, or the genius of false ones, may sometimes be employed for years in kindling
substantial opposition to authority; in other seasons the impulse of a moment, a ballad, a
nickname, a fashion can throw a city into a tumult, and shake the foundations of a state."

Such is a slight history of the human passions in politics! We might despair in thus discovering
that wisdom and patriotism so frequently originate in this turbid source of party; but we are
consoled when we reflect that the most important political principles are immutable: and that
they are those which even the spirit of party must learn to reverence.

FOOTNOTES:

  [47] See Recueil Chronologique et Analytique de tout ce qui a fait en
    Portugal la Société de Jesus. Vol. ii. sect. 406.

  [48] Plunder, observed Mr. Douce, is pure Dutch or
    Flemish--Plunderen, from Plunder, which means property of any
    kind. May tells us it was brought by those officers who had returned
    from the wars of the Netherlands.

  [49] One of the best collections of political songs written during
    the great Civil War, is entitled "The Rump," and has a curious
    frontispiece representing the mob burning rumps as described above.

  [50] The "History of the Tories and Rapparees" was a popular Irish
    chapbook a few years ago, and devoted to the daring acts of these
    marauders.

  [51] These curious particulars I found in a manuscript.

  [52] Lord Shelburne was named "Malagrida," and Lord Sandwich was
    "Jemmy Twitcher;" a name derived from the chief of Macheath's gang
    in the Beggar's Opera.

THE DOMESTIC LIFE OF A POET.--SHENSTONE VINDICATED.

The dogmatism of Johnson, and the fastidiousness of Gray, the critic who passed his days amidst
"the busy hum of men," and the poet who mused in cloistered solitude, have fatally injured
a fine natural genius in Shenstone. Mr. Campbell, with a brother's feeling, has (since the
present article was composed) sympathised with the endowments and the pursuits of this poet;
but the facts I had collected seemed to me to open a more important view. I am aware how lightly
the poetical character of Shenstone is held by some great contemporaries--although this very
poet has left us at least one poem of unrivalled originality. Mr. Campbell has regretted that
Shenstone not only "affected that arcadianism" which "gives a certain air of masquerade in
his pastoral character," adopted by our earlier poets, but also has "rather incongruously blended
together the rural swain with the disciple of virtù." All this requires some explanation. It
is not only as a poet, possessing the characteristics of poetry, but as a creator in another
way, for which I claim the attention of the reader. I have formed a picture of the domestic
life of a poet, and the pursuits of a votary of taste, both equally contracted in their endeavours,
from the habits, the emotions, and the events which occurred to Shenstone.

Four material circumstances influenced his character, and were productive of all his unhappiness.
The neglect he incurred in those poetical studies to which he had devoted his hopes; his secret
sorrows in not having formed a domestic union, from prudential motives, with one whom he loved;
the ruinous state of his domestic affairs, arising from a seducing passion for creating a new
taste in landscape gardening and an ornamented farm; and finally, his disappointment of that
promised patronage, which might have induced him to have become a political writer; for which
his inclinations, and, it is said, his talents in early life, were alike adapted: with these
points in view, we may trace the different states of his mind, show what he did, and what he
was earnestly intent to have done.

Why have the "Elegies" of Shenstone, which forty years ago formed for many of us the favourite
poems of our youth, ceased to delight us in mature life? It is perhaps that these Elegies,
planned with peculiar felicity, have little in their execution. They form a series of poetical
truths, devoid of poetical expression; truths,--for notwithstanding the pastoral romance in
which the poet has enveloped himself, the subjects are real, and the feelings could not, therefore,
be fictitious.

In a Preface, remarkable for its graceful simplicity, our poet tells us, that "He entered on
his subjects occasionally, as particular incidents in life suggested, or dispositions of mind
recommended them to his choice." He shows that "He drew his pictures from the spot, and, he
felt very sensibly the affections he communicates." He avers that all those attendants on rural
scenery, and all those allusions to rural life, were not the counterfeited scenes of a town
poet, any more than the sentiments, which were inspired by Nature. Shenstone's friend Graves,
who knew him in early life, and to his last days, informs us that these Elegies were written
when he had taken the Leasowes into his own hands;[53] and though his ferme ornée engaged his
thoughts, he occasionally wrote them, "partly," said Shenstone, "to divert my present impatience,
and partly, as it will be a picture of most that passes in my own mind; a portrait which friends
may value." This, then, is the secret charm which acts so forcibly on the first emotions of
our youth, at a moment when, not too difficult to be pleased, the reflected delineations of
the habits and the affections, the hopes and the delights, with all the domestic associations
of this poet, always true to Nature, reflect back that picture of ourselves which we instantly
recognise. It is only as we advance in life that we lose the relish of our early simplicity,
and that we discover that Shenstone was not endowed with high imagination.

These Elegies, with some other poems, may be read with a new interest when we discover them
to form the true Memoirs of Shenstone. Records of querulous but delightful feelings! whose
subjects spontaneously offered themselves from passing incidents; they still perpetuate emotions
which will interest the young poet and the young lover of taste.

Elegy IV., the first which Shenstone composed, is entitled "Ophelia's Urn," and it was no unreal
one! It was erected by Graves in Mickleton Church, to the memory of an extraordinary young
woman, Utrecia Smith, the literary daughter of a learned but poor clergyman. Utrecia had formed
so fine a taste for literature, and composed with such elegance in verse and prose, that an
excellent judge declared that "he did not like to form his opinion of any author till he previously
knew hers." Graves had been long attached to her, but from motives of prudence broke off an
intercourse with this interesting woman, who sunk under this severe disappointment. When her
prudent lover, Graves, inscribed the urn, her friend Shenstone, perhaps more feelingly, commemorated
her virtues and her tastes. Such, indeed, was the friendly intercourse between Shenstone and
Utrecia, that in Elegy XVIII., written long after her death, she still lingered in his reminiscences.
Composing this Elegy on the calamitous close of Somerville's life, a brother bard, and victim
to narrow circumstances, and which he probably contemplated as an image of his own, Shenstone
tenderly recollects that he used to read Somerville's poems to Utrecia:--

  Oh, lost Ophelia; smoothly flow'd the day
    To feel his music with my flames agree;
  To taste the beauties of his melting lay,
    To taste, and fancy it was dear to thee!

How true is the feeling! how mean the poetical expression!

The Seventh Elegy describes a vision, where the shadow of Wolsey breaks upon the author:

  A graceful form appear'd,
  White were his locks, with awful scarlet crown'd.

Even this fanciful subject was not chosen capriciously, but sprung from an incident. Once,
on his way to Cheltenham, Shenstone missed his road, and wandered till late at night among
the Cotswold Hills on this occasion he appears to have made a moral reflection, which we find
in his "Essays." "How melancholy is it to travel late upon any ambitious project on a winter's
night, and observe the light of cottages, where all the unambitious people are warm and happy,
or at rest in their beds." While the benighted poet, lost among the lonely hills, was meditating
on "ambitious projects," the character of Wolsey arose before him; the visionary cardinal crossed
his path, and busied his imagination. "Thou," exclaims the poet,

                      Like a meteor's fire,
  Shot'st blazing forth, disdaining dull degrees.

     Elegy vii.

And the bard, after discovering all the miseries of unhappy grandeur, and murmuring at this
delay to the house of his friend, exclaims--

  Oh if these ills the price of power advance,
  Check not my speed where social joys invite!

The silent departure of the poetical spectre is fine:

  The troubled vision cast a mournful glance,
  And sighing, vanish'd in the shades of night.

And to prove that the subject of this elegy thus arose to the poet's fancy, he has himself
commemorated the incident that gave occasion to it, in the opening:--

  On distant heaths, beneath autumnal skies,
    Pensive I saw the circling shades descend;
  Weary and faint, I heard the storm arise,
    While the sun vanish'd like a faithless friend.

     Elegy vii.

The Fifteenth Elegy, composed "in memory of a private family in Worcestershire," is on the
extinction of the ancient family of the Penns in the male line.[54] Shenstone's mother was
a Penn; and the poet was now the inhabitant of their ancient mansion, an old timber-built house
of the age of Elizabeth. The local description was a real scene--"the shaded pool"--"the group
of ancient elms"--"the flocking rooks," and the picture of the simple manners of his own ancestors,
were realities; the emotions they excited were therefore genuine, and not one of those "mockeries"
of amplification from the crowd of verse-writers.

The Tenth Elegy, "To Fortune, suggesting his Motive for repining at her Dispensations," with
his celebrated "Pastoral Ballad, in four parts." were alike produced by what one of the great
minstrels of our own times has so finely indicated when he sung--

  The secret woes the world has never known;
    While on the weary night dawn'd wearier day,
  And bitterer was the grief devour'd alone.

In this Elegy Shenstone repines at the dispensations of Fortune, not for having denied him
her higher gifts, nor that she compels him to

  Check the fond LOVE OF ART that fired my veins;

nor that some "dull dotard with boundless wealth" finds his "grating reed" preferred to the
bard's, but that the "tawdry shepherdess" of this dull dotard, by her "pride," makes "the rural
thane" despise the poet's Delia.

  Must Delia's softness, elegance, and ease,
    Submit to Marian's dress? to Marian's gold?
  Must Marian's robe from distant India please?
    The simple fleece my Delia's limbs infold!

  Ah! what is native worth esteemed of clowns?
    'Tis thy false glare, O Fortune! thine they see;
  Tis for my Delia's sake I dread thy frowns,
    And my last gasp shall curses breathe on thee!

The Delia of our poet was not an "Iris en air." Shenstone was early in life captivated by a
young lady, whom Graves describes with all those mild and serene graces of pensive melancholy,
touched by plaintive love-songs and elegies of woe, adapted not only to be the muse but the
mistress of a poet. The sensibility of this passion took entire possession of his heart for
some years, and it was in parting from her that he first sketched his exquisite "Pastoral Ballad."
As he retreated more and more into solitude, his passion felt no diminution. Dr. Nash informs
us that Shenstone acknowledged that it was his own fault that he did not accept the hand of
the lady whom he so tenderly loved; but his spirit could not endure to be a perpetual witness
of her degradation in the rank of society, by an inconsiderate union with poetry and poverty.
That such was his motive, we may infer from a passage in one of his letters. "Love, as it regularly
tends to matrimony, requires certain favours from fortune and circumstances to render it proper
to be indulged in." There are perpetual allusions to these "secret woes" in his correspondence;
for, although he had the fortitude to refuse marriage, he had not the stoicism to contract
his own heart in cold and sullen celibacy. He thus alludes to this subject, which so often
excited far other emotions than those of humour:--"It is long since I have considered myself
as undone. The world will not, perhaps, consider me in that light entirely till I have married
my maid!"

It is probable that our poet had an intention of marrying his maid. I discovered a pleasing
anecdote among the late Mr. Bindley's collections, which I transcribed from the original. On
the back of a picture of Shenstone himself, of which Dodsley published a print in 1780, the
following energetic inscription was written by the poet on his new-year's gift:--

"This picture belongs to Mary Cutler, given her by her master, William Shenstone, January 1st,
1754, in acknowledgment of her native genius, her magnanimity, her tenderness, and her fidelity.

     "W. S."

"The Progress of Taste; or the Fate of Delicacy," is a poem on the temper and studies of the
author; and "Economy; a Rhapsody addressed to Young Poets," abounds with self-touches. If Shenstone
created little from the imagination, he was at least perpetually under the influence of real
emotions. This is the reason why his truths so strongly operate on the juvenile mind, not yet
matured: and thus we have sufficiently ascertained the fact, as the poet himself has expressed
it, "that he drew his pictures from the spot, and he felt very sensibly the affections he communicates."

All the anxieties of a poetical life were early experienced by Shenstone. He first published
some juvenile productions, under a very odd title, indicative of modesty, perhaps too of pride.[55]
And his motto of Contentus paucis lectoribus, even Horace himself might have smiled at, for
it only conceals the desire of every poet who pants to deserve many! But when he tried at a
more elaborate poetical labour, "The Judgment of Hercules," it failed to attract notice. He
hastened to town, and he beat about literary coffee-houses; and returned to the country from
the chase of Fame, wearied without having started it.

  A breath revived him--but a breath o'erthrew.

Even "The Judgment of Hercules" between Indolence and Industry, or Pleasure and Virtue, was
a picture of his own feelings; an argument drawn from his own reasonings; indicating the uncertainty
of the poet's dubious disposition; who finally by siding with Indolence, lost that triumph
which his hero obtained by a directly opposite course.

In the following year begins that melancholy strain in his correspondence which marks the disappointment
of the man who had staked too great a quantity of his happiness on the poetical die. This is
the critical moment of life when our character is formed by habit, and our fate is decided
by choice. Was Shenstone to become an active or contemplative being? He yielded to nature![56]

It was now that he entered into another species of poetry, working with too costly materials,
in the magical composition of plants, water, and earth; with these he created those emotions
which his more strictly poetical ones failed to excite. He planned a paradise amidst his solitude.

Amidst these rural elegancies which Shenstone was raising about him, his muse has pathetically
sung his melancholy feelings--

  But did the Muses haunt his cell,
  Or in his dome did Venus dwell?--
  When all the structures shone complete,
  Ah, me! 'twas Damon's own confession,
  Came Poverty, and took possession.

  The Progress of Taste.

The poet observes, that the wants of philosophy are contracted, satisfied with "cheap contentment,"
but

                 Taste alone requires
  Entire profusion! days and nights, and hours
  Thy voice, hydropic Fancy! calls aloud
  For costly draughts.----

  Economy.

An original image illustrates that fatal want of economy which conceals itself amidst the beautiful
appearances of taste:--

              Some graceless mark,
  Some symptom ill-conceal'd, shall soon or late
  Burst like a pimple from the vicious tide
  Of acid blood, proclaiming want's disease
  Amidst the bloom of show.

     Economy.

He paints himself:--

              Observe Florelio's mien;
  Why treads my friend with melancholy step
  That beauteous lawn? Why pensive strays his eye
  O'er statues, grottos, urns, by critic art
  Proportion'd fair? or from his lofty dome
  Returns his eye unpleased, disconsolate?

The cause is, "criminal expense," and he exclaims--

                Sweet interchange
  Of river, valley, mountain, woods, and plains,
  How gladsome once he ranged your native turf,
  Your simple scenes how raptured! ere EXPENSE
  Had lavish'd thousand ornaments, and taught
  Convenience to perplex him, Art to pall,
  Pomp to deject, and Beauty to displease.

     Economy.

While Shenstone was rearing hazels and hawthorns, opening vistas, and winding waters;

  And having shown them where to stray,
  Threw little pebbles in their way;

while he was pulling down hovels and cowhouses, to compose mottos and inscriptions for garden-seats
and urns; while he had so finely obscured with a tender gloom the grove of Virgil, and thrown
over, "in the midst of a plantation of yew, a bridge of one arch, built of a dusty-coloured
stone, and simple even to rudeness,"[58] and invoked Oberon in some Arcadian scene,

  Where in cool grot and mossy cell
  The tripping fauns and fairies dwell;

the solitary magician, who had raised all these wonders, was, in reality, an unfortunate poet,
the tenant of a dilapidated farm-house, where the winds passed through, and the rains lodged,
often taking refuge in his own kitchen--

  Far from all resort of mirth,
  Save the cricket on the hearth!

In a letter[59] of the disconsolate founder of landscape gardening, our author paints his situation
with all its misery--lamenting that his house is not fit to receive "polite friends, were they
so disposed;" and resolved to banish all others, he proceeds:

"But I make it a certain rule, 'arcere profanum vulgus.' Persons who will despise you for the
want of a good set of chairs, or an uncouth fire-shovel, at the same time that they can't taste
any excellence in a mind that overlooks those things; with whom it is in vain that your mind
is furnished, if the walls are naked; indeed one loses much of one's acquisitions in virtue
by an hour's converse with such as judge of merit by money--yet I am now and then impelled
by the social passion to sit half an hour in my kitchen."

But the solicitude of friends and the fate of Somerville, a neighbour and a poet, often compelled
Shenstone to start amidst his reveries; and thus he has preserved his feelings and his irresolutions.

Such were the calamities of "great taste" with "little fortune;" but in the case of Shenstone,
these were combined with the other calamity of "mediocrity of genius."

Here, then, at the Leasowes, with occasional trips to town in pursuit of fame, which perpetually
eluded his grasp; in the correspondence of a few delicate minds, whose admiration was substituted
for more genuine celebrity; composing diatribes against economy and taste, while his income
was diminishing every year; our neglected author grew daily more indolent and sedentary, and
withdrawing himself entirely into his own hermitage, moaned and despaired in an Arcadian solitude.[60]
The cries and the "secret sorrows" of Shenstone have come down to us--those of his brothers
have not always! And shall dull men, because they have minds cold and obscure, like a Lapland
year which has no summer, be permitted to exult over this class of men of sensibility and taste,
but of moderate genius and without fortune? The passions and emotions of the heart are facts
and dates only to those who possess them.

To what a melancholy state was our author reduced, when he thus addressed his friend:--

"I suppose you have been informed that my fever was in a great measure hypochondriacal, and
left my nerves so extremely sensible, that even on no very interesting subjects, I could readily
think myself into a vertigo; I had almost said an epilepsy; for surely I was oftentimes near it."

The features of this sad portrait are more particularly made out in another place.

There are other testimonies in his entire correspondence. Whenever forsaken by his company
he describes the horrors around him, delivered up "to winter, silence, and reflection;" ever
foreseeing himself "returning to the same series of melancholy hours." His frame shattered
by the whole train of hypochondriacal symptoms, there was nothing to cheer the querulous author,
who with half the consciousness of genius, lived neglected and unpatronised. His elegant mind
had not the force, by his productions, to draw the celebrity he sighed after, to his hermitage.

Shenstone was so anxious for his literary character, that he contemplated on the posthumous
fame which he might derive from the publication of his letters: see Letter lxxix., On hearing
his letters to Mr. Whistler were destroyed; the act of a merchant, his brother, who being a
very sensible man, as Graves describes, yet with the stupidity of a Goth, destroyed the whole
correspondence of Shenstone, for "its sentimental intercourse."--Shenstone bitterly regrets
the loss, and says, "I would have given more money for the letters than it is allowable for
me to mention with decency. I look upon my letters as some of my chefs-d'oeuvre--they are the
history of my mind for these twenty years past." This, with the loss of Cowley's correspondence,
should have been preserved in the article, "of Suppressors and Dilapidators of Manuscripts."

Towards the close of life, when his spirits were exhausted, and "the silly clue of hopes and
expectations," as he termed them, was undone, the notice of some persons of rank began to reach
him. Shenstone, however, deeply colours the variable state of his own mind--"Recovering from
a nervous fever, as I have since discovered by many concurrent symptoms, I seem to anticipate
a little of that 'vernal delight' which Milton mentions and thinks

  ----able to chase
  All sadness but despair--

at least I begin to resume my silly clue of hopes and expectations."

In a former letter he had, however, given them up: "I begin to wean myself from all hopes and
expectations whatever. I feed my wild-ducks, and I water my carnations. Happy enough if I could
extinguish my ambition quite, to indulge the desire of being something more beneficial in my
sphere.--Perhaps some few other circumstances would want also to be adjusted."

What were these "hopes and expectations," from which sometimes he weans himself, and which
are perpetually revived, and are attributed to "an ambition he cannot extinguish"? This article
has been written in vain, if the reader has not already perceived, that they had haunted him
in early life; sickening his spirit after the possession of a poetical celebrity, unattainable
by his genius; some expectations too he might have cherished from the talent he possessed for
political studies, in which Graves confidently says, that "he would have made no inconsiderable
figure, if he had had a sufficient motive for applying his mind to them." Shenstone has left
several proofs of this talent.[61] But his master-passion for literary fame had produced little
more than anxieties and disappointments; and when he indulged his pastoral fancy in a beautiful
creation on his grounds, it consumed the estate which it adorned.

FOOTNOTES:

  [53] This once-celebrated abode of the poet is situated at Hales-Owen,
    Shropshire.

  [54] This we learn from Dr. Nash's History of Worcestershire.

  [55] While at college he printed, without his name, a small volume
    of verses, with this title, "Poems upon various Occasions, written
    for the Entertainment of the Author, and printed for the Amusement
    of a few Friends, prejudiced in his Favour." Oxford, 1737.
    12mo.--Nash's "History of Worcestershire," vol. i. p. 528.

    I find this notice of it in W. Lowndes's Catalogue; 4433 Shenstone
    (W.) Poems, 3l. 13s. 6d.--(Shenstone took uncommon pains to
    suppress this book, by collecting and destroying copies wherever he
    met with them.)--In, Longman's Bibliotheca Anglo-Poetica, it is
    valued at 15l. Oxf. 1737. Mr. Harris informs me, that about the
    year 1770, Fletcher, the bookseller, at Oxford, had many copies of
    this first edition, which he sold at Eighteen pence each. These
    prices are amusing! The prices of books are connected with their
    history.

  [56] On this subject Graves makes a very useful observation. "In
    this decision the happiness of Mr. Shenstone was materially
    concerned. Whether he determined wisely or not, people of taste and
    people of worldly prudence will probably be of very different
    opinions. I somewhat suspect, that 'people of worldly prudence' are
    not half the fools that 'people of taste' insist they are."

  [57] Shenstone's farm was surrounded by winding walks, decorated
    with vases and statues, varied by wood and water, and occasionally
    embracing fine views over Frankley and Clent Hills, and the country
    about Cradley, Dudley, Rawley, and the intermediate places. Some of
    his vases were inscribed to the memory of relatives and friends. One
    had a Latin inscription to his cousin Maria, another was dedicated
    to Somerville his poet-friend. In different parts of his domain he
    constructed buildings at once useful and ornamental, destined to
    serve farm-purposes, but to be also grateful to the eye. A Chinese
    bridge led to a temple beside a lake, and near was a seat inscribed
    with the popular Shropshire toast to "all friends round the Wrekin,"
    the spot commanding a distant view of the hill so named. A wild path
    through a small wood led to an ingeniously constructed root-house,
    beside which a rivulet ran which helped to form the lake already
    mentioned; on its banks was a dedicatory urn to the Genio Loci.
    The general effect of the whole place was highly praised in the
    poet's time. It was neglected at his death; and its description is
    now but a record of the past.

  [58] Wheatley, on "Modern Gardening," p. 172. Edition 5th.

  [59] In "Hull's Collection," vol. ii. letter ii.

  [60] Graves was supposed to have glanced at his friend Shenstone in
    his novel of "Columella; or, the Distressed Anchoret." The aim of
    this work is to convey all the moral instruction I could wish to
    offer here to youthful genius. It is written to show the consequence
    of a person of education and talents retiring to solitude and
    indolence in the vigour of youth. Nichols's "Literary Anecdotes,"
    vol. iii. p. 134. Nash's "History of Worcestershire," vol. i. p.
    528.

  [61] See his "Letters" xl. and xli., and more particularly xlii. and
    xliii., with a new theory of political principles.

SECRET HISTORY OF THE BUILDING OF BLENHEIM.

The secret history of this national edifice derives importance from its nature, and the remarkable
characters involved in the unparalleled transaction. The great architect, when obstructed in
the progress of his work by the irregular payments of the workmen, appears to have practised
one of his own comic plots to put the debts on the hero himself; while the duke, who had it
much at heart to inhabit the palace of his fame, but tutored into wariness under the vigilant
and fierce eye of Atossa,[62] would neither approve nor disapprove, silently looked on in hope
and in grief, from year to year, as the work proceeded, or as it was left at a stand. At length
we find this comédie larmoyante wound up by the duchess herself, in an attempt utterly to ruin
the enraged and insulted architect![63]

Perhaps this was the first time that it had ever been resolved in parliament to raise a public
monument of glory and gratitude--to an individual! The novelty of the attempt may serve as
the only excuse for the loose arrangements which followed after parliament had approved of
the design, without voting any specific supply for the purpose! The queen always issued the
orders at her own expense, and commanded expedition; and while Anne lived, the expenses of
the building were included in her majesty's debts, as belonging to the civil list sanctioned
by parliament.[64]

When George the First came to the throne, the parliament declared the debt to be the debt of
the queen, and the king granted a privy seal as for other debts. The crown and the parliament
had hitherto proceeded in perfect union respecting this national edifice. However, I find that
the workmen were greatly in arrears; for when George the First ascended the throne, they gladly
accepted a third part of their several debts!

The great architect found himself amidst inextricable difficulties. With the fertile invention
which amuses in his comedies, he contrived an extraordinary scheme, by which he proposed to
make the duke himself responsible for the building of Blenheim!

However much the duke longed to see the magnificent edifice concluded, he showed the same calm
intrepidity in the building of Blenheim as he had in its field of action. Aware that if he
himself gave any order, or suggested any alteration, he might be involved in the expense of
the building, he was never to be circumvented--never to be surprised into a spontaneous emotion
of pleasure or disapprobation; on no occasion, he declares, had he even entered into conversation
with the architect (though his friend) or with any one acting under his orders, about Blenheim
House! Such impenetrable prudence on all sides had often blunted the subdolous ingenuity of
the architect and plotter of comedies!

In the absence of the duke, when abroad in 1705, Sir John contrived to obtain from Lord Godolphin,
the friend and relative of the Duke of Marlborough, and probably his agent in some of his concerns,
a warrant, constituting Vanbrugh surveyor, with power of contracting on the behalf of the Duke
of Marlborough. How he prevailed on Lord Godolphin to get this appointment does not appear--his
lordship probably conceived it was useful, and might assist in expediting the great work, the
favourite object of the hero. This warrant, however, Vanbrugh kept entirely to himself; he
never mentioned to the duke that he was in possession of any such power; nor, on his return,
did he claim to have it renewed.

The building proceeded with the same delays, and the payments with the same irregularity; the
veteran now foresaw what happened, that he should never be the inhabitant of his own house!
The public money issued from the Treasury was never to be depended on; and after 1712, the
duke took the building upon himself, for the purpose of accommodating the workmen. They had
hitherto received what was called "crown pay," which was high wages and uncertain payment--and
they now gladly abated a third of their prices. But though the duke had undertaken to pay the
workmen, this could make no alteration in the claims on the Treasury. Blenheim was to be built
for Marlborough, not by him; it was a monument raised by the nation to their hero, not a palace
to be built by their mutual contributions.

Whether Marlborough found that his own million might be slowly injured while the Treasury remained
still obdurate, or that the architect was still more and more involved, I cannot tell; but
in 1715, the workmen appear to have struck, and the old delays and stand-still again renewed.
It was then Sir John, for the first time, produced the warrant he had extracted from Lord Godolphin,
to lay before the Treasury; adding, however, a memorandum, to prevent any misconception, that
the duke was to be considered as the paymaster, the debts incurred devolving on the crown.
This part of our secret history requires more development than I am enabled to afford: as my
information is drawn from "the Case" of the Duke of Marlborough in reply to Sir John's depositions,
it is possible Vanbrugh may suffer more than he ought in this narration; which, however, incidentally
notices his own statements.

A new scene opens! Vanbrugh not obtaining his claims from the Treasury, and the workmen becoming
more clamorous, the architect suddenly turns round on the duke, at once to charge him with
the whole debt.

The pitiable history of this magnificent monument of public gratitude, from its beginnings,
is given by Vanbrugh in his deposition. The great architect represents himself as being comptroller
of her majesty's works; and as such was appointed to prepare a model, which model of Blenheim
House her majesty kept in her palace, and gave her commands to issue money according to the
direction of Mr. Travers, the queen's surveyor-general; that the lord treasurer appointed her
majesty's own officers to supervise these works; that it was upon defect of money from the
Treasury that the workmen grew uneasy; that the work was stopped, till further orders of money
from the Treasury; that the queen then ordered enough to secure it from winter weather; that
afterwards she ordered more for payment of the workmen; that they were paid in part; and upon
Sir John's telling them the queen's resolution to grant them a further supply (after a stop
put to it by the duchess's order), they went on and incurred the present debt; that this was
afterwards brought into the House of Commons as the debt of the crown, not owing from the queen
to the Duke of Marlborough, but to the workmen, and this by the queen's officers.

During the uncertain progress of the building, and while the workmen were often in deep arrears,
it would seem that the architect often designed to involve the Marlboroughs in its fate and
his own; he probably thought that some of their round million might bear to be chipped, to
finish his great work, with which, too, their glory was so intimately connected. The famous
duchess had evidently put the duke on the defensive; but once, perhaps, was the duke on the
point of indulging some generous architectural fancy, when lo! Atossa stepped forwards and
"put a stop to the building."

When Vanbrugh at length produced the warrant of Lord Godolphin, empowering him to contract
for the duke, this instrument was utterly disclaimed by Marlborough; the duke declares it existed
without his knowledge; and that if such an instrument for a moment was to be held valid, no
man would be safe, but might be ruined by the act of another!

Vanbrugh seems to have involved the intricacy of his plot, till it fell into some contradictions.
The queen he had not found difficult to manage; but after her death, when the Treasury failed
in its golden source, he seems to have sat down to contrive how to make the duke the great
debtor. Vanbrugh swears that "He himself looked upon the crown, as engaged to the Duke of Marlborough
for the expense; but that he believes the workmen always looked upon the duke as their paymaster."
He advances so far, as to swear that he made a contract with particular workmen, which contract
was not unknown to the duke. This was not denied; but the duke in his reply observes, that
"he knew not that the workmen were employed for his account, or by his own agent:"--never having
heard till Sir John produced the warrant from Lord Godolphin, that Sir John was "his surveyor!"
which he disclaims.

Our architect, however opposite his depositions appear, contrived to become a witness to such
facts as tended to conclude the duke to be the debtor for the building; and "in his depositions
has taken as much care to have the guilt of perjury without the punishment of it, as any man
could do." He so managed, though he has not sworn to contradictions, that the natural tendency
of one part of his evidence presses one way, and the natural tendency of another part presses
the direct contrary way. In his former memorial, the main design was to disengage the duke
from the debt; in his depositions, the main design was to charge the duke with the debt. Vanbrugh,
it must be confessed, exerted not less of his dramatic than his architectural genius in the
building of Blenheim!

"The Case" concludes with an eloquent reflection, where Vanbrugh is distinguished as the man
of genius, though not, in this predicament, the man of honour. "If at last the charge run into
by order of the crown must be upon the duke, yet the infamy of it must go upon another, who
was perhaps the only architect in the world capable of building such a house; and the only
friend in the world capable of contriving to lay the debt upon one to whom he was so highly
obliged."

There is a curious fact in the depositions of Vanbrugh, by which we might infer that the idea
of Blenheim House might have originated with the duke himself; he swears that "in 1704, the
duke met him, and told him he designed to build a house, and must consult him about a model,
&c.; but it was the queen who ordered the present house to be built with all expedition."

The whole conduct of this national edifice was unworthy of the nation, if in truth the nation
ever entered heartily into it. No specific sum had been voted in parliament for so great an
undertaking; which afterwards was the occasion of involving all the parties concerned in trouble
and litigation; threatened the ruin of the architect; and I think we shall see, by Vanbrugh's
letters, was finished at the sole charge, and even under the superintendence, of the duchess
herself! It may be a question, whether this magnificent monument of glory did not rather originate
in the spirit of party, in the urgent desire of the queen to allay the pride and jealousies
of the Marlboroughs. From the circumstance to which Vanbrugh has sworn, that the duke had designed
to have a house built by Vanbrugh, before Blenheim had been resolved on, we may suppose that
this intention of the duke's afforded the queen a suggestion of a national edifice.

Archdeacon Coxe, in his Life of Marlborough, has obscurely alluded to the circumstances attending
the building of Blenheim. "The illness of the duke, and the tedious litigation which ensued,
caused such delays, that little progress was made in the work at the time of his decease. In
the interim a serious misunderstanding arose between the duchess and the architect, which forms
the subject of a voluminous correspondence. Vanbrugh was in consequence removed, and the direction
of the building confided to other hands, under her own immediate superintendence."

This "voluminous correspondence" would probably afford "words that burn" of the lofty insolence
of Atossa, and "thoughts that breathe" of the comic wit; it might too relate, in many curious
points, to the stupendous fabric itself. If her grace condescended to criticise its parts with
the frank roughness she is known to have done to the architect himself, his own defence and
explanations might serve to let us into the bewildering fancies of his magical architecture.
Of that self-creation for which he was so much abused in his own day as to have lost his real
avocation as an architect, and stands condemned for posterity in the volatile bitterness of
Lord Orford, nothing is left for us but our own convictions--to behold, and to be for ever
astonished!--But "this voluminous correspondence?" Alas! the historian of war and politics
overlooks with contempt the little secret histories of art and of human nature!--and "a voluminous
correspondence" which indicates so much, and on which not a solitary idea is bestowed, has
only served to petrify our curiosity!

Of this quarrel between the famous duchess and Vanbrugh I have only recovered several vivacious
extracts from confidential letters of Vanbrugh's to Jacob Tonson. There was an equality of
the genius of invention, as well as rancour, in her grace and the wit: whether Atossa, like
Vanbrugh, could have had the patience to have composed a comedy of five acts I will not determine;
but unquestionably she could have dictated many scenes with equal spirit. We have seen Vanbrugh
attempting to turn the debts incurred by the building of Blenheim on the duke; we now learn,
for the first time, that the duchess, with equal aptitude, contrived a counterplot to turn
the debts on Vanbrugh!

"I have the misfortune of losing, for I now see little hopes of ever getting it, near 2000l.
due to me for many years' service, plague, and trouble, at Blenheim, which that wicked woman
of 'Marlborough' is so far from paying me, that the duke being sued by some of the workmen
for work done there, she has tried to turn the debt due to them upon me, for which I think
she ought to be hanged."

In 1722, on occasion of the duke's death, Vanbrugh gives an account to Tonson of the great
wealth of the Marlboroughs, with a caustic touch at his illustrious victims.

"The Duke of Marlborough's treasure exceeds the most extravagant guess. The grand settlement,
which it was suspected her grace had broken to pieces, stands good, and hands an immense wealth
to Lord Godolphin and his successors. A round million has been moving about in loans on the
land-tax, &c. This the Treasury knew before he died, and this was exclusive of his 'land;'
his 5000l. a year upon the post-office; his mortgages upon a distressed estate; his South-Sea
stock; his annuities, and which were not subscribed in, and besides what is in foreign banks;
and yet this man could neither pay his workmen their bills, nor his architect his salary.

"He has given his widow (may a Scottish ensign get her!) 10,000l. a year to spoil Blenheim
her own way; 12,000l. a year to keep herself clean and go to law; 2000l. a year to Lord Rialton
for present maintenance; and Lord Godolphin only 5000l. a year jointure, if he outlives my
lady: this last is a wretched article. The rest of the heap, for these are but snippings, goes
to Lord Godolphin, and so on. She will have 40,000l. a year in present."

Atossa, as the quarrel heated and the plot thickened, with the maliciousness of Puck, and the
haughtiness of an empress of Blenheim, invented the most cruel insult that ever architect endured!--one
perfectly characteristic of that extraordinary woman. Vanbrugh went to Blenheim with his lady,
in a company from Castle Howard, another magnificent monument of his singular genius.

"We staid two nights in Woodstock; but there was an order to the servants, under her grace's
own hand, not to let me enter Blenheim! and lest that should not mortify me enough, she having
somehow learned that my wife was of the company, sent an express the night before we came there,
with orders that if she came with the Castle Howard ladies, the servants should not suffer
her to see either house, gardens, or even to enter the park: so she was forced to sit all day
long and keep me company at the inn!"

This was a coup-de-théâtre in this joint comedy of Atossa and Vanbrugh! The architect of Blenheim,
lifting his eyes towards his own massive grandeur, exiled to a dull inn, and imprisoned with
one who required rather to be consoled, than capable of consoling the enraged architect!

In 1725, Atossa still pursuing her hunted prey, had driven it to a spot which she flattered
herself would enclose it with the security of a preserve. This produced the following explosion!

"I have been forced into chancery by that B. B. B. the Duchess of Marlborough, where she has
got an injunction upon me by her friend the late good chancellor (Earl of Macclesfield), who
declared that I was never employed by the duke, and therefore had no demand upon his estate
for my services at Blenheim. Since my hands were thus tied up from trying by law to recover
my arrear, I have prevailed with Sir Robert Walpole to help me in a scheme which I proposed
to him, by which I got my money in spite of the hussy's teeth. My carrying this point enrages
her much, and the more because it is of considerable weight in my small fortune, which she
has heartily endeavoured so to destroy as to throw me into an English Bastile, there to finish
my days, as I began them, in a French one."

Plot for plot! and the superior claims of one of practised invention are vindicated! The writer,
long accustomed to comedy-writing, has excelled the self-taught genius of Atossa. The "scheme"
by which Vanbrugh's fertile invention, aided by Sir Robert Walpole, finally circumvented the
avaricious, the haughty, and the capricious Atossa, remains untold, unless it is alluded to
by the passage in Lord Orford's "Anecdotes of Painting," where he informs us that the "duchess
quarrelled with Sir John, and went to law with him; but though he proved to be in the right,
or rather because he proved to be in the right, she employed Sir Christopher Wren to build
the house in St. James's Park."

I have to add a curious discovery respecting Vanbrugh himself, which explains a circumstance
in his life not hitherto understood.

In all the biographies of Vanbrugh, from the time of Cibber's Lives of the Poets, the early
part of the life of this man of genius remains unknown. It is said he descended from an ancient
family in Cheshire, which came originally from France, though by the name, which properly written
would be Van Brugh, he would appear to be of Dutch extraction. A tale is universally repeated
that Sir John once visiting France in the prosecution of his architectural studies, while taking
a survey of some fortifications, excited alarm, and was carried to the Bastile: where, to deepen
the interest of the story, he sketched a variety of comedies, which he must have communicated
to the governor, who, whispering it doubtless as an affair of state to several of the noblesse,
these admirers of "sketches of comedies"--English ones no doubt--procured the release of this
English Molière. This tale is further confirmed by a very odd circumstance. Sir John built
at Greenwich, on a spot still called "Van Brugh's Fields," two whimsical houses; one on the
side of Greenwich Park is still called "the Bastile-House," built on its model, to commemorate
this imprisonment.

Not a word of this detailed story is probably true! that the Bastile was an object which sometimes
occupied the imagination of our architect, is probable; for by the letter we have just quoted,
we discover from himself the singular incident of Vanbrugh's having been born in the Bastile.[65]

Desirous, probably, of concealing his alien origin, this circumstance cast his early days into
obscurity. He felt that he was a Briton in all respects but that of his singular birth. The
father of Vanbrugh married Sir Dudley Carleton's daughter. We are told he had "political connexions;"
and one of his "political" tours had probably occasioned his confinement in that state-dungeon,
where his lady was delivered of her burden of love. This odd fancy of building a "Bastile-House"
at Greenwich, a fortified prison! suggested to his first life-writer the fine romance; which
must now be thrown aside among those literary fictions the French distinguish by the softening
and yet impudent term of "Anecdotes hasardées!" with which formerly Varillas and his imitators
furnished their pages; lies which looked like facts!

FOOTNOTES:

  [62] The name by which Pope ruthlessly satirized Sarah Duchess of
    Marlborough.

  [63] I draw the materials of this secret history from an unpublished
    "Case of the Duke of Marlborough and Sir John Vanbrugh," as also
    from some confidential correspondence of Vanbrugh with Jacob Tonson,
    his friend and publisher.

  [64] Parliament voted 500,000l. for the building, which was
    insufficient. The queen added thereto the honour of Woodstock, an
    appanage of the crown, on the simple condition of rendering at
    Windsor Castle every year on the anniversary of the victory of
    Blenheim, a flag adorned with three fleur-de-lys, "as acquittance
    for all manner of rents, suits and services due to the crown."

  [65] Cunningham, in his "Lives of the British Architects," does not
    incline to the conclusions above drawn. He says, "I suspect that
    Vanbrugh, in saying he began his days in the Bastile, meant only
    that he was its tenant in early life--at the commencement of his
    manhood." The same author tells us that Vanbrugh's grandfather fled
    from Ghent, his native city, to avoid the persecutions of the Duke
    of Alva, and established himself as a merchant in Walbrook, where
    his son lived after him, and where John Vanbrugh (afterwards the
    great architect) was born in the year 1666. His father was at this
    time Comptroller of the Treasury Chamber. Cunningham thinks the
    Cheshire part of the genealogy "unlikely to be true."

SECRET HISTORY OF SIR WALTER RAWLEIGH.[66]

Rawleigh exercised in perfection incompatible talents, and his character connects the opposite
extremes of our nature! His "Book of Life," with its incidents of prosperity and adversity,
of glory and humiliation, was as chequered as the novelist would desire for a tale of fiction.
Yet in this mighty genius there lies an unsuspected disposition, which requires to be demonstrated,
before it is possible to conceive its reality. From his earliest days, probably by his early
reading of the romantic incidents of the first Spanish adventurers in the New World, he himself
betrayed the genius of an adventurer, which prevailed in his character to the latest; and it
often involved him in the practice of mean artifices and petty deceptions; which appear like
folly in the wisdom of a sage; like ineptitude in the profound views of a politician; like
cowardice in the magnanimity of a hero; and degrade by their littleness the grandeur of a character
which was closed by a splendid death, worthy the life of the wisest and the greatest of mankind!

The sunshine of his days was in the reign of Elizabeth. From a boy, always dreaming of romantic
conquests (for he was born in an age of heroism), and formed by nature for the chivalric gallantry
of the court of a maiden queen, from the moment he with such infinite art cast his rich mantle
over the miry spot, his life was a progress of glory. All about Rawleigh was as splendid as
the dress he wore: his female sovereign, whose eyes loved to dwell on men who might have been
fit subjects for "the Faerie Queene" of Spenser, penurious of reward, only recompensed her
favourites by suffering them to make their own fortunes on sea and land; and Elizabeth listened
to the glowing projects of her hero, indulging that spirit which could have conquered the world,
to have laid the toy at the feet of the sovereign!

This man, this extraordinary being, who was prodigal of his life and fortune on the Spanish
Main, in the idleness of peace could equally direct his invention to supply the domestic wants
of every-day life, in his project of "an office for address." Nothing was too high for his
ambition, nor too humble for his genius. Pre-eminent as a military and a naval commander, as
a statesman and a student, Rawleigh was as intent on forming the character of Prince Henry,
as that prince was studious of moulding his own aspiring qualities by the genius of the friend
whom he contemplated. Yet the active life of Rawleigh is not more remarkable than his contemplative
one. He may well rank among the founders of our literature; for composing on a subject exciting
little interest, his fine genius has sealed his unfinished volume with immortality. For magnificence
of eloquence, and massiveness of thought, we must still dwell on his pages.[67] Such was the
man who was the adored patron of Spenser; whom Ben Jonson, proud of calling other favourites
"his sons," honoured by the title of "his father;" and who left political instructions which
Milton deigned to edit.

But how has it happened that, of so elevated a character, Gibbon has pronounced that it was
"ambiguous," while it is described by Hume as "a great but ill-regulated mind!"

There was a peculiarity in the character of this eminent man; he practised the cunning of an
adventurer--a cunning most humiliating in the narrative! The great difficulty to overcome in
this discovery is, how to account for a sage and a hero acting folly and cowardice, and attempting
to obtain by circuitous deception what it may be supposed so magnanimous a spirit would only
deign to possess himself of by direct and open methods.

Since the present article was written, a letter, hitherto unpublished, appears in the recent
edition of Shakspeare which curiously and minutely records one of those artifices of the kind
which I am about to narrate at length. When, under Elizabeth, Rawleigh was once in confinement,
it appears that seeing the queen passing by, he was suddenly seized with a strange resolution
of combating with the governor and his people, declaring that the mere sight of the queen had
made him desperate, as a confined lover would feel at the sight of his mistress. The letter
gives a minute narrative of Sir Walter's astonishing conduct, and carefully repeats the warm
romantic style in which he talked of his royal mistress, and his formal resolution to die rather
than exist out of her presence.[68] This extravagant scene, with all its cunning, has been
most elaborately penned by the ingenious letter-writer, with a hint to the person whom he addresses,
to suffer it to meet the eye of their royal mistress, who could not fail of admiring our new
"Orlando Furioso," and soon after released this tender prisoner! To me it is evident that the
whole scene was got up and concerted for the occasion, and was the invention of Rawleigh himself;
the romantic incident he well knew was perfectly adapted to the queen's taste. Another similar
incident, in which I have been anticipated in the disclosure of the fact, though not of its
nature, was what Sir Toby Matthews obscurely alludes to in his letters, of "the guilty blow
he gave himself in the Tower;" a passage which had long excited my attention, till I discovered
the curious incident in some manuscript letters of Lord Cecil. Rawleigh was then confined in
the Tower for the Cobham conspiracy; a plot so absurd and obscure that one historian has called
it a "state-riddle," but for which, so many years after, Rawleigh so cruelly lost his life.

Lord Cecil gives an account of the examination of the prisoners involved in this conspiracy.
"One afternoon, whilst divers of us were in the Tower examining some of these prisoners, Sir
Walter attempted to murder himself; whereof, when we were advertised, we came to him, and found
him in some agony to be unable to endure his misfortunes, and protesting innocency, with carelessness
of life; and in that humour he had wounded himself under the right pap, but no way mortally,
being in truth rather a CUT than a STAB, and now very well cured both in body and mind."[69]
This feeble attempt at suicide, this "cut rather than stab," I must place among those scenes
in the life of Rawleigh so incomprehensible with the genius of the man. If it were nothing
but one of those

  Fears of the Brave!

we must now open another of the

  Follies of the Wise!

Rawleigh returned from the wild and desperate voyage of Guiana, with misery in every shape
about him.[70] His son had perished; his devoted Keymis would not survive his reproach; and
Rawleigh, without fortune and without hope, in sickness and in sorrow, brooded over the sad
thought, that in the hatred of the Spaniard, and in the political pusillanimity of James, he
was arriving only to meet inevitable death. With this presentiment, he had even wished to give
up his ship to the crew, had they consented to land him in France; but he was probably irresolute
in this decision at sea, as he was afterwards at land, where he wished to escape, and refused
to fly: the clearest intellect was darkened, and magnanimity itself became humiliated, floating
between the sense of honour and of life.

Rawleigh landed in his native county of Devon: his arrival was the common topic of conversation,
and he was the object of censure or of commiseration: but his person was not molested, till
the fears of James became more urgent than his pity.

The Cervantic Gondomar, whose "quips and quiddities" had concealed the cares of state, one
day rushed into the presence of James, breathlessly calling out for "audience!" and compressing
his "ear-piercing" message into the laconic abruptness of "piratas! piratas! piratas!" There
was agony as well as politics in this cry of Gondomar, whose brother, the Spanish governor,
had been massacred in this predatory expedition.[71] The timid monarch, terrified at this tragical
appearance of his facetious friend, saw at once the demands of the whole Spanish cabinet, and
vented his palliative in a gentle proclamation. Rawleigh having settled his affairs in the
west, set off for London to appear before the king, in consequence of the proclamation. A few
miles from Plymouth he was met by Sir Lewis Stucley, vice-admiral of Devon, a kinsman and a
friend, who, in communication with government, had accepted a sort of surveillance over Sir
Walter. It is said (and will be credited, when we hear the story of Stucley), that he had set
his heart on the ship, as a probable good purchase; and on the person, against whom, to colour
his natural treachery, he professed an old hatred. He first seized on Rawleigh more like the
kinsman than the vice-admiral, and proposed travelling together to London, and baiting at the
houses of the friends of Rawleigh. The warrant which Stucley in the meanwhile had desired was
instantly despatched, and the bearer was one Manoury, a French empiric, who was evidently sent
to act the part he did--a part played at all times, and the last title, in French politics,
that so often had recourse to this instrument of state, is a Mouton!

Rawleigh still, however, was not placed under any harsh restraint: his confidential associate,
Captain King, accompanied him; and it is probable, that if Rawleigh had effectuated his escape,
he would have conferred a great favour on the government.

They could not save him at London. It is certain that he might have escaped; for Captain King
had hired a vessel, and Rawleigh had stolen out by night, and might have reached it, but irresolutely
returned home; another night, the same vessel was ready, but Rawleigh never came! The loss
of his honour appeared the greater calamity.

As he advanced in this eventful journey, everything assumed a more formidable aspect. His friends
communicated fearful advices; a pursuivant, or king's messenger, gave a more menacing appearance;
and suggestions arose in his own mind, that he was reserved to become a victim of state. When
letters of commission from the Privy Council were brought to Sir Lewis Stucley, Rawleigh was
observed to change countenance, exclaiming with an oath, "Is it possible my fortune should
return upon me thus again?" He lamented, before Captain King, that he had neglected the opportunity
of escape; and which, every day he advanced inland, removed him the more from any chance.

Rawleigh at first suspected that Manoury was one of those instruments of state who are sometimes
employed when open measures are not to be pursued, or when the cabinet have not yet determined
on the fate of a person implicated in a state crime; in a word, Rawleigh thought that Manoury
was a spy over him, and probably over Stucley too. The first impression in these matters is
usually the right one; but when Rawleigh found himself caught in the toils, he imagined that
such corrupt agents were to be corrupted. The French empiric was sounded, and found very compliant;
Rawleigh was desirous by his aid to counterfeit sickness, and for this purpose invented a series
of the most humiliating stratagems. He imagined that a constant appearance of sickness might
produce delay, and procrastination, in the chapter of accidents, might end in pardon. He procured
vomits from the Frenchman, and, whenever he chose, produced every appearance of sickness; with
dimness of sight, dizziness in his head, he reeled about, and once struck himself with such
violence against a pillar in the gallery, that there was no doubt of his malady. Rawleigh's
servant one morning entering Stucley's chamber, declared that his master was out of his senses,
for that he had just left him in his shirt upon all fours, gnawing the rushes upon the floor.
On Stucley's entrance, Rawleigh was raving, and reeling in strong convulsions. Stucley ordered
him to be chafed and fomented, and Rawleigh afterwards laughed at this scene with Manoury,
observing that he had made Stucley a perfect physician.

But Rawleigh found it required some more visible and alarming disease than such ridiculous
scenes had exhibited. The vomits worked so slowly, that Manoury was fearful to repeat the doses.
Rawleigh inquired whether the empiric knew of any preparation which could make him look ghastly,
without injuring his health. The Frenchman offered a harmless ointment to act on the surface
of the skin, which would give him the appearance of a leper. "That will do!" said Rawleigh,
"for the lords will be afraid to approach me, and besides it will move their pity." Applying
the ointment to his brows, his arms, and his breast, the blisters rose, the skin inflamed,
and was covered with purple spots. Stucley concluded that Rawleigh had the plague. Physicians
were now to be called in; Rawleigh took the black silk ribbon from his poniard, and Manoury
tightened it strongly about his arm, to disorder his pulse; but his pulse beat too strong and
regular. He appeared to take no food, while Manoury secretly provided him. To perplex the learned
doctors still more, Rawleigh had the urinal coloured by a drug of a strong scent. The physicians
pronounced the disease mortal, and that the patient could not be removed into the air without
immediate danger. Awhile after, being in his bed-chamber undressed, and no one present but
Manoury, Sir Walter held a looking-glass in his hand to admire his spotted face,[72] and observed
in merriment to his new confidant, "how they should one day laugh for having thus cozened the
king, council, physicians, Spaniards, and all." The excuse Rawleigh offered for this course
of poor stratagems, so unworthy of his genius, was to obtain time and seclusion for writing
his Apology, or Vindication of his Voyage, which has come down to us in his "Remains." "The
prophet David did make himself a fool, and suffered spittle to fall upon his beard, to escape
from the hands of his enemies," said Rawleigh in his last speech. Brutus, too, was another
example. But his discernment often prevailed over this mockery of his spirit. The king licensed
him to reside at his own house on his arrival in London; on which Manoury observed that the
king showed by this indulgence that his majesty was favourably inclined towards him; but Rawleigh
replied, "They used all these kinds of flatteries to the Duke of Biron, to draw him fairly
into prison, and then they cut off his head. I know they have concluded among them that it
is expedient that a man should die, to re-assure the traffick which I have broke with Spain."
And Manoury adds, from whose narrative we have all these particulars, that Sir Walter broke
out into this rant: "If he could but save himself for this time, he would plot such plots as
should make the king think himself happy to send for him again, and restore him to his estate,
and would force the King of Spain to write into England in his favour."

Rawleigh at length proposed a flight to France with Manoury, who declares it was then he revealed
to Stucley what he had hitherto concealed, that Stucley might double his vigilance. Rawleigh
now perceived that he had two rogues to bribe instead of one, and that they were playing into
one another's hands. Proposals are now made to Stucley through Manoury, who is as compliant
as his brother-knave. Rawleigh presented Stucley with a "jewel made in the fashion of hail
powdered with diamonds, with a ruby in the midst." But Stucley observing to his kinsman and
friend, that he must lose his office of vice-admiral, which had cost him six hundred pounds,
in case he suffered Rawleigh to escape; Rawleigh solemnly assured him that he should be no
loser, and that his lady should give him one thousand pounds when they got into France or Holland.
About this time the French quack took his leave: the part he had to act was performed: the
juggle was complete: and two wretches had triumphed over the sagacity and magnanimity of a
sage and a hero, whom misfortune had levelled to folly; and who, in violating the dignity of
his own character, had only equalled himself with vulgar knaves; men who exulted that the circumventer
was circumvented; or, as they expressed it, "the great cozener was cozened." But our story
does not here conclude, for the treacheries of Stucley were more intricate. This perfect villain
had obtained a warrant of indemnity to authorise his compliance with any offer to assist Rawleigh
in his escape; this wretch was the confidant and the executioner of Rawleigh; he carried about
him a license to betray him, and was making his profit of the victim before he delivered him
to the sacrifice. Rawleigh was still plotting his escape; at Salisbury he had despatched his
confidential friend Captain King to London, to secure a boat at Tilbury; he had also a secret
interview with the French agent. Rawleigh's servant mentioned to Captain King, that his boatswain
had a ketch[73] of his own, and was ready at his service for "thirty pieces of silver;" the
boatswain and Rawleigh's servant acted Judas, and betrayed the plot to Mr. William Herbert,
cousin to Stucley, and thus the treachery was kept among themselves as a family concern. The
night for flight was now fixed, but he could not part without his friend Stucley, who had promised
never to quit him; and who indeed, informed by his cousin Herbert, had suddenly surprised Rawleigh
putting on a false beard. The party met at the appointed place; Sir Lewis Stucley with his
son, and Rawleigh disguised. Stucley, in saluting King, asked whether he had not shown himself
an honest man? King hoped he would continue so. They had not rowed twenty strokes, before the
watermen observed, that Mr. Herbert had lately taken boat, and made towards the bridge, but
had returned down the river after them. Rawleigh instantly expressed his apprehensions, and
wished to return home; he consulted King--the watermen took fright--Stucley acted his part
well; damning his ill-fortune to have a friend whom he would save, so full of doubts and fears,
and threatening to pistol the watermen if they did not proceed. Even King was overcome by the
earnest conduct of Stucley, and a new spirit was infused into the rowers. As they drew near
Greenwich a wherry crossed them. Rawleigh declared it came to discover them. King tried to
allay his fears, and assured him that if once they reached Gravesend, he would hazard his life
to get to Tilbury. But in these delays and discussions, the tide was failing; the watermen
declared they could not reach Gravesend before morning; Rawleigh would have landed at Purfleet,
and the boatswain encouraged him; for there it was thought he could procure horses for Tilbury.
Sir Lewis Stucley too was zealous; and declared he was content to carry the cloak-bag on his
own shoulders, for half-a-mile, but King declared that it was useless, they could not at that
hour get horses to go by land.

They rowed a mile beyond Woolwich, approaching two or three ketches, when the boatswain doubted
whether any of these were the one he had provided to furnish them. "We are betrayed!" cried
Rawleigh, and ordered the watermen to row back: he strictly examined the boatswain; alas! his
ingenuity was baffled by a shuffling villain, whose real answer appeared when a wherry hailed
the boat: Rawleigh observed that it contained Herbert's crew. He saw that all was now discovered.
He took Stucley aside; his ingenious mind still suggesting projects for himself to return home
in safety, or how Stucley might plead that he had only pretended to go with Rawleigh, to seize
on his private papers. They whispered together, and Rawleigh took some things from his pocket,
and handed them to Stucley; probably more "rubies powdered with diamonds."--Some effect was
instantaneously produced; for the tender heart of his friend Stucley relented, and he not only
repeatedly embraced him with extraordinary warmth of affection, but was voluble in effusions
of friendship and fidelity. Stucley persuaded Rawleigh to land at Gravesend, the strange wherry
which had dogged them landing at the same time; these were people belonging to Mr. Herbert
and Sir William St. John, who, it seems, had formerly shared in the spoils of this unhappy
hero. On Greenwich bridge, Stucley advised Captain King that it would be advantageous to Sir
Walter, that King should confess that he had joined with Stucley to betray his master; and
Rawleigh lent himself to the suggestion of Stucley, of whose treachery he might still be uncertain;
but King, a rough and honest seaman, declared that he would not share in the odium. At the
moment he refused, Stucley arrested the captain in the king's name, committing him to the charge
of Herbert's men. They then proceeded to a tavern, but Rawleigh, who now viewed the monster
in his true shape, observed, "Sir Lewis, these actions will not turn out to your credit;" and
on the following day, when they passed through the Tower-gate, Rawleigh, turning to King, observed,
"Stucley and my servant Cotterell have betrayed me. You need be in no fear of danger, but as
for me, it is I who am the mark that is shot at." Thus concludes the narrative of Captain King.
The fate of Rawleigh soon verified the prediction.

This long narrative of treachery will not, however, be complete, unless we wind it up with
the fate of the infamous Stucley. Fiction gives perfection to its narratives, by the privilege
it enjoys of disposing of its criminals in the most exemplary manner; but the labours of the
historian are not always refreshed by this moral pleasure. Retribution is not always discovered
in the present stage of human existence, yet history is perhaps equally delightful as fiction,
whenever its perfect catastrophes resemble those of romantic invention. The present is a splendid
example.

I have discovered the secret history of Sir Lewis Stucley, in several manuscript letters of
the times.

Rawleigh, in his admirable address from the scaffold, where he seemed to be rather one of the
spectators than the sufferer, declared he forgave Sir Lewis, for he had forgiven all men; but
he was bound in charity to caution all men against him, and such as he is! Rawleigh's last
and solemn notice of the treachery of his "kinsman and friend" was irrevocably fatal to this
wretch. The hearts of the people were open to the deepest impressions of sympathy, melting
into tears at the pathetic address of the magnanimous spirit who had touched them; in one moment
Sir Lewis Stucley became an object of execration throughout the nation; he soon obtained a
new title, that of "Sir Judas," and was shunned by every man. To remove the Cain-like mark,
which God and men had fixed on him, he published an apology for his conduct; a performance
which, at least for its ability, might raise him in our consideration; but I have since discovered,
in one of the manuscript letter-writers, that it was written by Dr. Sharpe, who had been a
chaplain to Henry Prince of Wales. The writer pleads in Stucley's justification, that he was
a state-agent; that it was lawful to lie for the discovery of treason; that he had a personal
hatred towards Rawleigh, for having abridged his father of his share of some prize-money; and
then enters more into Rawleigh's character, who "being desperate of any fortune here, agreeable
to the height of his mind, would have made up his fortune elsewhere, upon any terms against
his sovereign and his country. Is it not marvel," continues the personifier of Stucley, "that
he was angry with me at his death for bringing him back? Besides, being a man of so great a
wit, it was no small grief that a man of mean wit as I should be thought to go beyond him.
No? Sic ars deluditur arte. [This apt latinity betrays Dr. Sharpe.] But why did you not execute
your commission bravely [openly]?--Why? My commission was to the contrary, to discover his
pretensions, and to seize his secret papers," &c.[74]

But the doctor, though no unskilful writer, here wrote in vain; for what ingenuity can veil
the turpitude of long and practised treachery? To keep up appearances, Sir Judas resorted more
than usually to court; where, however, he was perpetually enduring rebuffs, or avoided, as
one infected with the plague of treachery. He offered the king, in his own justification, to
take the sacrament, that whatever he had laid to Rawleigh's charge was true, and would produce
two unexceptionable witnesses to do the like. "Why, then," replied his majesty, "the more malicious
was Sir Walter to utter these speeches at his death." Sir Thomas Badger, who stood by, observed,
"Let the king take off Stucley's head, as Stucley has done Sir Walter's, and let him at his
death take the sacrament and his oath upon it, and I'll believe him; but till Stucley loses
his head, I shall credit Sir Walter Rawleigh's bare affirmative before a thousand of Stucley's
oaths." When Stucley, on pretence of giving an account of his office, placed himself in the
audience chamber of the lord admiral, and his lordship passed him without any notice, Sir Judas
attempted to address the earl; but with a bitter look his lordship exclaimed--"Base fellow!
darest thou, who art the scorn and contempt of men, offer thyself in my presence? Were it not
in my own house, I would cudgel thee with my staff for presuming on this sauciness." This annihilating
affront Stucley hastened to convey to the king; his majesty answered him--"What wouldst thou
have me do? Wouldst thou have me hang him? Of my soul, if I should hang all that speak ill
of thee, all the trees of the country would not suffice, so great is the number!"

One of the frequent crimes of that age, ere the forgery of bank-notes existed, was the clipping
of gold; and this was one of the private amusements suitable to the character of our Sir Judas.
Treachery and forgery are the same crime in a different form. Stucley received out of the exchequer
five hundred pounds, as the reward of his espionnage and perfidy. It was the price of blood,
and was hardly in his hands ere it was turned into the fraudulent coin of "the cheater!" He
was seized on in the palace of Whitehall, for diminishing the gold coin. "The manner of the
discovery," says the manuscript-writer, "was strange, if my occasions would suffer me to relate
the particulars." On his examination he attempted to shift the crime to his own son, who had
fled; and on his man, who, being taken, in the words of the letter-writer, was "willing to
set the saddle upon the right horse, and accused his master." Manoury, too, the French empiric,
was arrested at Plymouth for the same crime, and accused his worthy friend. But such was the
interest of Stucley with government, bought, probably, with his last shilling, and, as one
says, with his last shirt, that he obtained his own and his son's pardon, for a crime that
ought to have finally concluded the history of this blessed family.[75] A more solemn and tragical
catastrophe was reserved for the perfidious Stucley. He was deprived of his place of vice-admiral,
and left destitute in the world. Abandoned by all human beings, and most probably by the son
whom he had tutored in the arts of villany, he appears to have wandered about, an infamous
and distracted beggar. It is possible that even so seared a conscience may have retained some
remaining touch of sensibility.

                All are men,
    Condemned alike to groan;
  The tender for another's pain,
    THE UNFEELING FOR HIS OWN.

And Camden has recorded, among his historical notes on James the First, that in August, 1620,
"Lewis Stucley, who betrayed Sir Walter Rawleigh, died in a manner mad." Such is the catastrophe
of one of the most perfect domestic tales; an historical example, not easily paralleled, of
moral retribution.

The secret practices of the "Sir Judas" of the court of James the First, which I have discovered,
throw light on an old tradition which still exists in the neighbourhood of Affeton, once the
residence of this wretched man. The country people have long entertained a notion that a hidden
treasure lies at the bottom of a well in his grounds, guarded by some supernatural power: a
tradition no doubt originating in this man's history, and an obscure allusion to the gold which
Stucley received for his bribe, or the other gold which he clipped, and might have there concealed.
This is a striking instance of the many historical facts which, though entirely unknown or
forgotten, may be often discovered to lie hid, or disguised, in popular traditions.

FOOTNOTES:

  [66] Rawleigh, as was much practised to a much later period, wrote
    his name various ways. I have discovered at least how it was
    pronounced in his time--thus, Rawly. This may be additionally
    confirmed by the Scottish poet Drummond, who spells it (in his
    conversations with Ben Jonson) Raughley. The translation of
    Ortelius' "Epitome of the Worlde," 1603, is dedicated to Sir Walter
    Rawleigh. See vol. ii. p. 261, art. "Orthography of Proper Names."
    It was also written Rawly by his contemporaries. He sometimes
    wrote it Ralegh, the last syllable probably pronounced ly, or
    lay. Ralegh appears on his official seal.

  [67] I shall give in the article "Literary Unions" a curious account
    how "Rawleigh's History of the World" was composed, which has
    hitherto escaped discovery.

  [68] It is narrated in a letter to Sir Robert Cecil from Mr.
    (afterwards Sir) Arthur Gorges, and runs as follows:--"Upon a report
    of her majesty's being at Sir George Carew's, Sir W. Ralegh having
    gazed and sighed a long time at his study window, from whence he
    might discern the barges and boats about the Blackfriars stairs,
    suddenly brake out into a great distemper, and sware that his
    enemies had on purpose brought her majesty thither to break his gall
    in sunder with Tantalus's torments, that when she went away he might
    see death before his eyes; with many such like conceits. And, as a
    man transported with passion, he sware to Sir George Carew that he
    would disguise himself, and get into a pair of oars to ease his mind
    but with a sight of the queen, or else he protested his heart would
    break." This of course the gaoler refused, and so they fell to
    fighting, "scrambling and brawling like madmen," until parted by
    Gorges. Sir Walter followed up his absurdity by another letter to
    Cecil, couched in the language of romance, in which he declares
    that, while the queen "was yet near at hand, that I might hear of
    her once in two or three days my sorrows were the less, but now my
    heart is cast into the depth of all misery."

  [69] These letters were written by Lord Cecil to Sir Thomas Parry,
    our ambassador in France, and were transcribed from the copy-book of
    Sir Thomas Parry's correspondence which is preserved in the Pepysian
    library at Cambridge.

  [70] He had undertaken the expedition immediately upon his release
    from the Tower in 1617. The king had never pardoned him, and his
    release was effected by bribing powerful court favourites, who
    worked upon the avarice of James I. by leading him to hope for the
    possession of Guiana, which, though discovered by the Spaniards, had
    never been conquered by them; and which Rawleigh promised to
    colonise.

  [71] This occurred during the attack on the town of St. Thomas; a
    settlement of the Spaniards near the gold mines. It ended
    disastrously to Rawleigh: his ships mutinied; and he never recovered
    his ill-fortune; but sailed to Newfoundland, and thence, after a
    second mutiny, returned to Plymouth.

  [72] A friend informs me, that he saw recently at a print-dealer's a
    painted portrait of Sir Walter Rawleigh, with the face thus
    spotted. It is extraordinary that any artist should have chosen
    such a subject for his pencil; but should this be a portrait of the
    times, it shows that this strange stratagem had excited public
    attention.

  [73] A small coasting-vessel, made round at stem and stern like the
    Dutch boats. The word is still used in some English counties to
    denote a tub.

  [74] Stucley's Humble Petition, touching the bringing up Sir W.
    Rawleigh, 4to. 1618; republished in Somers' Tracts, vol. iii. 751.

  [75] The anecdotes respecting Stucley I have derived from manuscript
    letters, and they were considered to be of so dangerous a nature,
    that the writer recommends secrecy, and requests, after reading,
    that "they may be burnt." With such injunctions I have generally
    found that the letters were the more carefully preserved.

AN AUTHENTIC NARRATIVE OF THE LAST HOURS OF SIR WALTER RAWLEIGH.

The close of the life of Sir Walter Rawleigh was as extraordinary as many parts of his varied
history; the promptitude and sprightliness of his genius, his carelessness of life, and the
equanimity of this great spirit in quitting the world, can only be paralleled by a few other
heroes and sages. Rawleigh was both! But it is not simply his dignified yet active conduct
on the scaffold, nor his admirable speech on that occasion, circumstances by which many great
men are judged, when their energies are excited for a moment to act so great a part, before
the eyes of the world assembled at their feet; it is not these only which claim our notice.

We may pause with admiration on the real grandeur of Rawleigh's character, not from a single
circumstance, however great, but from a tissue of continued little incidents, which occurred
from the moment of his condemnation till he laid his head on the block. Rawleigh was a man
of such mark, that he deeply engaged the attention of his contemporaries; and to this we owe
the preservation of several interesting particulars of what he did and what he said, which
have entered into his life; but all has not been told in the published narratives. Contemporary
writers in their letters have set down every fresh incident, and eagerly caught up his sense,
his wit, and, what is more delightful, those marks of the natural cheerfulness of his invariable
presence of mind: nor could these have arisen from any affectation or parade, for we shall
see that they served him even in his last tender farewell to his lady, and on many unpremeditated
occasions.

I have drawn together into a short compass all the facts which my researches have furnished,
not omitting those which are known, concerning the feelings and conduct of Rawleigh at these
solemn moments of his life; to have preserved only the new would have been to mutilate the
statue, and to injure the whole by an imperfect view.

Rawleigh one morning was taken out of his bed, in a fit of fever, and unexpectedly hurried,
not to his trial, but to a sentence of death. The story is well known.--Yet pleading with "a
voice grown weak by sickness and an ague he had at that instant on him," he used every means
to avert his fate: he did, therefore, value the life he could so easily part with. His judges,
there, at least, respected their state criminal, and they addressed him in a tone far different
from that which he had fifteen years before listened to from Coke. Yelverton, the attorney-general,
said--"Sir Walter Rawleigh hath been as a star at which the world have gazed; but stars may
fall, nay, they must fall, when they trouble the sphere where they abide." And the lord chief-justice
noticed Rawleigh's great work:--"I know that you have been valiant and wise, and I doubt not
but you retain both these virtues, for now you shall have occasion to use them. Your book is
an admirable work; I would give you counsel, but I know you can apply unto yourself far better
than I am able to give you." But the judge ended with saying, "execution is granted." It was
stifling Rawleigh with roses! the heroic sage felt as if listening to fame from the voice of death.

He declared that now being old, sickly, and in disgrace, and "certain were he allowed to live,
to go to it again, life was wearisome to him, and all he entreated was to have leave to speak
freely at his farewell, to satisfy the world that he was ever loyal to the king, and a true
lover of the commonwealth; for this he would seal with his blood."

Rawleigh, on his return to his prison, while some were deploring his fate, observed that "the
world itself is but a larger prison, out of which some are daily selected for execution."

That last night of his existence was occupied by writing what the letter-writer calls "a remembrancer
to be left with his lady, to acquaint the world with his sentiments, should he be denied their
delivery from the scaffold, as he had been at the bar of the King's Bench." His lady visited
him that night, and amidst her tears acquainted him that she had obtained the favour of disposing
of his body; to which he answered smiling, "It is well, Bess, that thou mayst dispose of that,
dead, thou hadst not always the disposing of when it was alive." At midnight he entreated her
to leave him. It must have been then, that, with unshaken fortitude, Rawleigh sat down to compose
those verses on his death, which being short, the most appropriate may be repeated.

He has added two other lines expressive of his trust in his resurrection. Their authenticity
is confirmed by the writer of the present letter, as well as another writer, enclosing "half
a dozen verses, which Sir Walter made the night before his death, to take his farewell of poetry,
wherein he had been a scribbler even from his youth." The enclosure is not now with the letter.
Chamberlain, the writer, was an intelligent man of the world, but not imbued with any deep
tincture of literature. On the same night Rawleigh wrote this distich on the candle burning
dimly:--

  Cowards fear to die; but courage stout,
  Rather than live in snuff, will be put out.

At this solemn moment, before he lay down to rest, and at the instant of parting from his lady,
with all his domestic affections still warm, to express his feelings in verse was with him
a natural effusion, and one to which he had long been used. It is peculiar in the fate of Rawleigh,
that having before suffered a long imprisonment with an expectation of a public death, his
mind had been accustomed to its contemplation, and had often dwelt on the event which was now
passing. The soul, in its sudden departure, and its future state, is often the subject of his
few poems; that most original one of "The Farewell,"

  Go, soul! the body's guest,
  Upon a thankless errand, &c.

is attributed to Rawleigh, though on uncertain evidence. The dean says, that he made no more
of his death than if he had been to take a journey: "Not," said he, "but that I am a great
sinner, for I have been a soldier, a seaman, and a courtier." The writer of a manuscript letter
tells us, that the dean declared he died not only religiously, but he found him to be a man
as ready and as able to give as to take instruction.

On the morning of his death he smoked, as usual, his favourite tobacco, and when they brought
him a cup of excellent sack, being asked how he liked it, Rawleigh answered--"As the fellow,
that, drinking of St. Giles's bowl, as he went to Tyburn, said, 'that was good drink if a man
might tarry by it.'"[76] The day before, in passing from Westminster Hall to the Gate-house,
his eye had caught Sir Hugh Beeston in the throng, and calling on him, Rawleigh requested that
he would see him die to-morrow. Sir Hugh, to secure himself a seat on the scaffold, had provided
himself with a letter to the sheriff, which was not read at the time, and Sir Walter found
his friend thrust by, lamenting that he could not get there. "Farewell!" exclaimed Rawleigh,
"I know not what shift you will make, but I am sure to have a place." In going from the prison
to the scaffold, among others who were pressing hard to see him, one old man, whose head was
bald, came very forward, insomuch that Rawleigh noticed him, and asked "whether he would have
aught of him?" The old man answered--"Nothing but to see him, and to pray God for him." Rawleigh
replied--"I thank thee, good friend, and I am sorry I have no better thing to return thee for
thy good will." Observing his bald head, he continued, "but take this night-cap (which was
a very rich wrought one that he wore), for thou hast more need of it now than I."

His dress, as was usual with him, was elegant, if not rich.[77] Oldys describes it, but mentions,
that "he had a wrought nightcap under his hat;" this we have otherwise disposed of; he wore
a ruff-band, a black wrought velvet night-gown over a hare-coloured satin doublet, and a black
wrought waistcoat; black cut taffety breeches, and ash-coloured silk stockings.

He ascended the scaffold with the same cheerfulness as he had passed to it; and observing the
lords seated at a distance, some at windows, he requested they would approach him, as he wished
that they should all witness what he had to say. The request was complied with by several.
His speech is well known; but some copies contain matters not in others. When he finished,
he requested Lord Arundel that the king would not suffer any libels to defame him after death.--"And
now I have a long journey to go, and must take my leave." "He embraced all the lords and other
friends with such courtly compliments, as if he had met them at some feast," says a letter-writer.
Having taken off his gown, he called to the headsman to show him the axe, which not being instantly
done, he repeated, "I prithee let me see it, dost thou think that I am afraid of it?" He passed
the edge lightly over his finger, and smiling, observed to the sheriff, "This is a sharp medicine,
but a sound cure for all diseases," and kissing it laid it down. Another writer has, "This
is that that will cure all sorrows." After this he went to three several corners of the scaffold,
and kneeling down, desired all the people to pray for him, and recited a long prayer to himself.
When he began to fit himself for the block, he first laid himself down to try how the block
fitted him; after rising up, the executioner kneeled down to ask his forgiveness, which Rawleigh
with an embrace gave, but entreated him not to strike till he gave a token by lifting up his
hand, "and then, fear not, but strike home!" When he laid his head down to receive the stroke,
the executioner desired him to lay his face towards the east. "It was no great matter which
way a man's head stood, so that the heart lay right," said Rawleigh; but these were not his
last words. He was once more to speak in this world with the same intrepidity he had lived
in it--for, having lain some minutes on the block in prayer, he gave the signal; but the executioner,
either unmindful, or in fear, failed to strike, and Rawleigh, after once or twice putting forth
his hands, was compelled to ask him, "Why dost thou not strike? Strike! man!" In two blows
he was beheaded; but from the first his body never shrunk from the spot by any discomposure
of his posture, which, like his mind, was immovable.

"In all the time he was upon the scaffold, and before," says one of the manuscript letter-writers,
"there appeared not the least alteration in him, either in his voice or countenance; but he
seemed as free from all manner of apprehension as if he had been come thither rather to be
a spectator than a sufferer; nay, the beholders seemed much more sensible than did he, so that
he hath purchased here in the opinion of men such honour and reputation, as it is thought his
greatest enemies are they that are most sorrowful for his death, which they see is like to
turn so much to his advantage."

The people were deeply affected at the sight, and so much, that one said that "we had not such
another head to cut off;" and another "wished the head and brains to be upon Secretary Naunton's
shoulders." The observer suffered for this; he was a wealthy citizen, and great newsmonger,
and one who haunted Paul's Walk. Complaint was made, and the citizen was summoned to the Privy
Council. He pleaded that he intended no disrespect to Mr. Secretary, but only spoke in reference
to the old proverb, that "two heads were better than one!" His excuse was allowed at the moment;
but when afterwards called on for a contribution to St. Paul's Cathedral, and having subscribed
a hundred pounds, the Secretary observed to him, that "two are better than one, Mr. Wiemark!"
Either from fear or charity, the witty citizen doubled his subscription.[78]

Thus died this glorious and gallant cavalier, of whom Osborne says, "His death was managed
by him with so high and religious a resolution, as if a Roman had acted a Christian, or rather
a Christian a Roman."[79]

After having read the preceding article, we are astonished at the greatness, and the variable
nature of this extraordinary man and this happy genius. With Gibbon, who once meditated to
write his life, we may pause, and pronounce "his character ambiguous;" but we shall not hesitate
to decide that Rawleigh knew better how to die than to live. "His glorious hours," says a contemporary,
"were his arraignment and execution;" but never will be forgotten the intermediate years of
his lettered imprisonment; the imprisonment of the learned may sometimes be their happiest leisure.

FOOTNOTES:

  [76] In the old time, when prisoners were conveyed from Newgate to
    Tyburn, they stopped about midway at the "Old Hospital," at St.
    Giles's-in-the-fields, "and," says Stow, "were presented with a
    great bowl of ale, thereof to drink at their pleasure, as to be
    their last refreshment in this life."

  [77] Rawleigh's love of dress is conspicuous in the early portraits
    of him we possess, and particularly so in the one engraved by Lodge.

  [78] The general impression was so much in disfavour of this
    judicial murder, that James thought it politic to publish an 8vo
    pamphlet, in 1618, entitled, "A Declaration of the Demeanor and
    Cariage of Sir Walter Raleigh, Knight, as well in his Voyage, as in
    and sithence his Returne: and of the true motives and inducements
    which occasioned his Maiestie to proceed in doing justice upon him,
    as hath beene done." It takes the whole question apologetically of
    the licence given him to Guiana, "as his Majestie's honour was in a
    manner engaged, not to deny unto his people the adventure and hope
    of such great riches" as the mines of that island might yield. It
    afterwards details his proceedings there, which are declared
    criminal, dangerous to his Majesty's allies, and an abuse of his
    commission. It ends by defending his execution, "because he could
    not by law be judicially called in question, for that his former
    attainder of treason is the highest and last worke of the law
    (whereby hee was civiliter mortuus) his Maiestie was enforced
    (except attainders should become priviledges for all subsequent
    offences) to resolve to have him executed upon his former
    attainder."

  [79] The chief particulars in this narrative are drawn from two
    manuscript letters of the day, in the Sloane Collection, under their
    respective dates, Nov. 3, 1618, Larkin to Sir Thos. Pickering; Oct.
    13, 1618, Chamberlain's letters.

LITERARY UNIONS.

SECRET HISTORY OF RAWLEIGH'S HISTORY OF THE WORLD, AND VASARI'S LIVES.

A union of talents, differing in their qualities, might carry some important works to a more
extended perfection. In a work of great enterprise, the aid of a friendly hand may be absolutely
necessary to complete the labours of the projector, who may have neither the courage, the leisure,
nor all necessary acquisitions for performing the favourite task which he has otherwise matured.
Many great works, commenced by a master-genius, have remained unfinished, or have been deficient
for want of this friendly succour. The public would have been grateful to Johnson, had he united
in his dictionary the labours of some learned etymologist. Speed's Chronicle owes most of its
value, as it does its ornaments, to the hand of Sir Robert Cotton, and other curious researchers,
who contributed entire portions. Goguet's esteemed work of the "Origin of the Arts and Sciences"
was greatly indebted to the fraternal zeal of a devoted friend. The still valued books of the
Port Royal Society were all formed by this happy union. The secret history of many eminent
works would show the advantages which may be derived from that combination of talents, differing
in their nature. Cumberland's masterly versions of the fragments of the Greek dramatic poets
would never have been given to the poetical world, had he not accidentally possessed the manuscript
notes of his relative, the learned Bentley. This treasure supplied that research in the most
obscure works, which the volatile studies of Cumberland could never have explored; a circumstance
which he concealed from the world, proud of the Greek erudition which he thus cheaply possessed.
Yet by this literary union, Bentley's vast erudition made those researches which Cumberland
could not; and Cumberland gave the nation a copy of the domestic drama of Greece, of which
Bentley was incapable.

There is a large work, which is still celebrated, of which the composition has excited the
astonishment even of the philosophic Hume, but whose secret history remains yet to be disclosed.
This extraordinary volume is "The History of the World by Rawleigh." I shall transcribe Hume's
observations, that the reader may observe the literary phenomenon. Now when the truth is known,
the wonderful in this literary mystery will disappear, except in the eloquent, the grand, and
the pathetic passages interspersed in that venerable volume. We may, indeed, pardon the astonishment
of our calm philosopher, when we consider the recondite matter contained in this work, and
recollect the little time which this adventurous spirit, whose life was passed in fabricating
his own fortune, and in perpetual enterprise, could allow to such erudite pursuits. Where could
Rawleigh obtain that familiar acquaintance with the rabbins, of whose language he was probably
entirely ignorant? His numerous publications, the effusions of a most active mind, though excellent
in their kind, were evidently composed by one who was not abstracted in curious and remote
inquiries, but full of the daily business and the wisdom of human life. His confinement in
the Tower, which lasted several years, was indeed sufficient for the composition of this folio
volume, and of a second which appears to have occupied him. But in that imprisonment it singularly
happened that he lived among literary characters with most intimate friendship. There he joined
the Earl of Northumberland, the patron of the philosophers of his age, and with whom Rawleigh
pursued his chemical studies; and Serjeant Hoskins, a poet and a wit, and the poetical "father"
of Ben Jonson, who acknowledged that "It was Hoskins who had polished him;" and that Rawleigh
often consulted Hoskins on his literary works, I learn from a manuscript. But however literary
the atmosphere of the Tower proved to Rawleigh, no particle of Hebrew, and perhaps little of
Grecian lore, floated from a chemist and a poet. The truth is, that the collection of the materials
of this history was the labour of several persons, who have not all been discovered. It has
been ascertained that Ben Jonson was a considerable contributor; and there was an English philosopher
from whom Descartes, it is said even by his own countrymen, borrowed largely--Thomas Hariot,
whom Anthony Wood charges with infusing into Rawleigh's volume philosophical notions, while
Rawleigh was composing his History of the World. But if Rawleigh's pursuits surpassed even
those of the most recluse and sedentary lives, as Hume observes, we must attribute this to
a "Dr. Robert Burrel, Rector of Northwald, in the county of Norfolk, who was a great favourite
of Sir Walter Rawleigh, and had been his chaplain. All, or the greatest part of the drudgery
of Sir Walter's History for criticisms, chronology, and reading Greek and Hebrew authors, was
performed by him for Sir Walter."[80] Thus a simple fact, when discovered, clears up the whole
mystery; and we learn how that knowledge was acquired, which, as Hume sagaciously detected,
required "a recluse and sedentary life," such as the studies and the habits of a country clergyman
would have been in a learned age.

The secret history of another work, still more celebrated than the History of the World, by
Sir Walter Rawleigh, will doubtless surprise its numerous admirers.

Without the aid of a friendly hand, we should probably have been deprived of the delightful
History of Artists by Vasari: although a mere painter and goldsmith, and not a literary man,
Vasari was blessed with the nice discernment of one deeply conversant with art, and saw rightly
what was to be done, when the idea of the work was suggested by the celebrated Paulus Jovius
as a supplement to his own work of the "Eulogiums of Illustrious Men." Vasari approved of the
project; but on that occasion judiciously observed, not blinded by the celebrity of the literary
man who projected it, that "It would require the assistance of an artist to collect the materials,
and arrange them in their proper order; for although Jovius displayed great knowledge in his
observations, yet he had not been equally accurate in the arrangement of his facts in his book
of Eulogiums." Afterwards, when Vasari began to collect his information, and consulted Paulus
Jovius on the plan, although that author highly approved of what he saw, he alleged his own
want of leisure and ability to complete such an enterprise; and this was fortunate: we should
otherwise have had, instead of the rambling spirit which charms us in the volumes of Vasari,
the verbose babble of a declaimer. Vasari, however, looked round for the assistance he wanted;
a circumstance which Tiraboschi has not noticed: like Hogarth, he required a literary man for
his scribe. I have discovered the name of the chief writer of the Lives of the Painters, who
wrote under the direction of Vasari, and probably often used his own natural style, and conveyed
to us those reflections which surely come from their source. I shall give the passage, as a
curious instance where the secret history of books is often detected in the most obscure corners
of research. Who could have imagined that in a collection of the lives de' Santi e Beati dell'
Ordine de' Predicatori, we are to look for the writer of Vasari's lives? Don Serafini Razzi,
the author of this ecclesiastical biography, has this reference: "Who would see more of this
may turn to the Lives of the Painters, Sculptors, and Architects, written for the greater part
by Don Silvano Razzi, my brother, for the Signor Cavaliere M. Giorgio Vasari, his great friend."[81]

The discovery that Vasari's volumes were not entirely written by himself, though probably under
his dictation, and unquestionably, with his communications, as we know that Dr. Morell wrote
the "Analysis of Beauty" for Hogarth, will perhaps serve to clear up some unaccountable mistakes
or omissions which appear in that series of volumes, written at long intervals, and by different
hands. Mr. Fuseli has alluded to them in utter astonishment; and cannot account for Vasari's
"incredible dereliction of reminiscence, which prompted him to transfer what he had rightly
ascribed to Giorgione in one edition to the elder Parma in the subsequent ones." Again: "Vasari's
memory was either so treacherous, or his rapidity in writing so inconsiderate, that his account
of the Capella Sistina, and the stanze of Raffaello, is a mere heap of errors and unpardonable
confusion." Even Bottari, his learned editor, is at a loss how to account for his mistakes.
Mr. Fuseli finely observes--"He has been called the Herodotus of our art; and if the main simplicity
of his narrative, and the desire of heaping anecdote on anecdote, entitle him in some degree
to that appellation, we ought not to forget that the information of every day adds something
to the authenticity of the Greek historian, whilst every day furnishes matter to question the
credibility of the Tuscan." All this strongly confirms the suspicion that Vasari employed different
hands at different times to write out his work. Such mistakes would occur to a new writer,
not always conversant with the subject he was composing on, and the disjointed materials of
which were often found in a disordered state. It is, however, strange that neither Bottari
nor Tiraboschi appears to have been aware that Vasari employed others to write for him; we
see that from the first suggestion of the work he had originally proposed that Paulus Jovius
should hold the pen for him.

The principle illustrated in this article might be pursued; but the secret history of two great
works so well known is as sufficient as twenty others of writings less celebrated. The literary
phenomenon which had puzzled the calm inquiring Hume to cry out "a miracle!" has been solved
by the discovery of a little fact on Literary Unions, which derives importance from this circumstance.[82]

FOOTNOTES:

  [80] I draw my information from a very singular manuscript in the
    Lansdowne collection, which I think has been mistaken for a boy's
    ciphering book, of which it has much the appearance, No. 741, fo.
    57, as it stands in the auctioneer's catalogue. It appears to be a
    collection closely written, extracted out of Anthony Wood's papers;
    and as I have discovered in the manuscript numerous notices not
    elsewhere preserved, I am inclined to think that the transcriber
    copied them from that mass of Anthony Wood's papers, of which more
    than one sackful was burnt at his desire before him when dying. If
    it be so, this MS. is the only register of many curious facts. Jonson's powerful advocate, Mr. Gifford, has not alleged
    a word in the defence of our great bard's free conversational
    strictures; the secret history of Rawleigh's great work had never
    been discovered; on this occasion, however, Jonson only spoke what
    he knew to be true--and there may have been other truths, in those
    conversations which were set down at random by Drummond, who may
    have chiefly recollected the satirical touches.

  [81] I find this quotation in a sort of polemical work of natural
    philosophy, entitled "Saggio di Storia Litteraria Fiorentina del
    Secolo XVII. da Giovanne Clemente Nelli," Lucca, 1759, p. 58. Nelli
    also refers to what he had said on this subject in his Piante ad
    alzati di S.M. del Fiore, p. vi. e vii.; a work on architecture.
    See Brunet; and Haym, Bib. Ital. de Libri rari.

  [82] MR. PATRICK FRASER TYTLER, in his recent biography of Sir
    Walter Rawleigh, a work of vigorous research and elegant
    composition, has dedicated to me a supernumerary article in his
    Appendix, entitled Mr. D'Israeli's Errors!

    He has inferred from the present article, that I denied that
    Rawleigh was the writer of his own great work!--because I have shown
    how great works may be advantageously pursued by the aid of
    "Literary Union." It is a monstrous inference! The chimera which
    plays before his eyes is his own contrivance; he starts at his own
    phantasmagoria, and leaves me, after all, to fight with his shadow.

    Mr. Tytler has not contradicted a single statement of mine. I have
    carefully read his article and my own, and I have made no
    alteration.

    I may be allowed to add that there is much redundant matter in the
    article of Mr. Tytler; and, to use the legal style, there is much
    "impertinence," which, with a little candour and more philosophy, he
    would strike his pen through, as sound lawyers do on these
    occasions.

OF A BIOGRAPHY PAINTED.

There are objects connected with literary curiosity, whose very history, though they may never
gratify our sight, is literary; and the originality of their invention, should they excite
imitation, may serve to constitute a class. I notice a book-curiosity of this nature.

This extraordinary volume may be said to have contained the travels and adventures of Charles
Magius, a noble Venetian; and this volume, so precious, consisted only of eighteen pages, composed
of a series of highly-finished miniature paintings on vellum, some executed by the hand of
Paul Veronese. Each page, however, may be said to contain many chapters; for, generally, it
is composed of a large centre-piece, surrounded by ten small ones, with many apt inscriptions,
allegories, and allusions; the whole exhibiting romantic incidents in the life of this Venetian
nobleman. But it is not merely as a beautiful production of art that we are to consider it;
it becomes associated with a more elevated feeling in the occasion which produced it. The author,
who is himself the hero, after having been long calumniated, resolved to set before the eyes
of his accusers the sufferings and adventures he could perhaps have but indifferently described:
and instead of composing a tedious volume for his justification, invented this new species
of pictorial biography. The author minutely described the remarkable situations in which fortune
had placed him; and the artists, in embellishing the facts he furnished them with to record,
emulated each other in giving life to their truth, and putting into action, before the spectator,
incidents which the pen had less impressively exhibited. This unique production may be considered
as a model to represent the actions of those who may succeed more fortunately by this new mode
of perpetuating their history; discovering, by the aid of the pencil, rather than by their
pen, the forms and colours of an extraordinary life.

It was when the Ottomans (about 1571) attacked the Isle of Cyprus, that this Venetian nobleman
was charged by his republic to review and repair the fortifications. He was afterwards sent
to the pope to negociate an alliance: he returned to the senate to give an account of his commission.
Invested with the chief command, at the head of his troops, Magius threw himself into the island
of Cyprus, and after a skilful defence, which could not prevent its fall, at Famagusta he was
taken prisoner by the Turks, and made a slave. His age and infirmities induced his master,
at length, to sell him to some Christian merchants; and after an absence of several years from
his beloved Venice, he suddenly appeared, to the astonishment and mortification of a party
who had never ceased to calumniate him; while his own noble family were compelled to preserve
an indignant silence, having had no communications with their lost and enslaved relative. Magius
now returned to vindicate his honour, to reinstate himself in the favour of the senate, and
to be restored to a venerable parent amidst his family; to whom he introduced a fresh branch,
in a youth of seven years old, the child of his misfortunes, who, born in trouble, and a stranger
to domestic endearments, was at one moment united to a beloved circle of relations.

I shall give a rapid view of some of the pictures of this Venetian nobleman's life. The whole
series has been elaborately drawn up by the Duke de la Vallière, the celebrated book-collector,
who dwells on the detail with the curiosity of an amateur.[83]

In a rich frontispiece, a Christ is expiring on the cross; Religion, leaning on a column, contemplates
the Divinity, and Hope is not distant from her. The genealogical tree of the house of Magius,
with an allegorical representation of Venice, its nobility, power, and riches: the arms of
Magius, in which is inserted a view of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem, of which he was made
a knight; his portrait, with a Latin inscription: "I have passed through arms and the enemy,
amidst fire and water, and the Lord conducted me to a safe asylum, in the year of grace 1571."
The portrait of his son, aged seven years, finished with the greatest beauty, and supposed
to have come from the hand of Paul Veronese; it bears this inscription: "Overcome by violence
and artifice, almost dead before his birth, his mother was at length delivered of him, full
of life, with all the loveliness of infancy; under the divine protection, his birth was happy,
and his life with greater happiness shall be closed with good fortune."

A plan of the Isle of Cyprus, where Magius commanded, and his first misfortune happened, his
slavery by the Turks.--The painter has expressed this by an emblem of a tree shaken by the
winds and scathed by the lightning; but from the trunk issues a beautiful green branch shining
in a brilliant sun, with this device--"From this fallen trunk springs a branch full of vigour."

The missions of Magius to raise troops in the province of La Puglia.--In one of these Magius
is seen returning to Venice; his final departure,--a thunderbolt is viewed falling on his vessel--his
passage by Corfu and Zante, and his arrival at Candia.

His travels to Egypt.--The centre figure represents this province raising its right hand extended
towards a palm-tree, and the left leaning on a pyramid, inscribed "Celebrated throughout the
world for her wonders." The smaller pictures are the entrance of Magius into the port of Alexandria;
Rosetta, with a caravan of Turks and different nations; the city of Grand Cairo, exterior and
interior, with views of other places; and finally, his return to Venice.

His journey to Rome.--The centre figure an armed Pallas seated on trophies, the Tyber beneath
her feet, a globe in her hands, inscribed Quod rerum victrix ac domina,--"Because she is the
Conqueress and Mistress of the World." The ten small pictures are views of the cities in the
pope's dominion. His first audience at the conclave forms a pleasing and fine composition.

His travels into Syria.--The principal figure is a female, emblematical of that fine country;
she is seated in the midst of a gay orchard, and embraces a bundle of roses, inscribed Mundi
deliciæ--"The delight of the universe." The small compartments are views of towns and ports,
and the spot where Magius collected his fleet.

His pilgrimage to Jerusalem, where he was made a knight of the Holy Sepulchre.--The principal
figure represents Devotion, inscribed Ducit--"It is she who conducts me." The compartments
exhibit a variety of objects, with a correctness of drawing which is described as belonging
to the class, and partaking of the charms of the pencil of Claude Lorraine. His vessel is first
viewed in the roadstead at Venice beat by a storm; arrives at Zante to refresh; enters the
port of Simiso; there having landed, he and his companions are proceeding to the town on asses,
for Christians were not permitted to travel in Turkey on horses. In the church at Jerusalem
the bishop, in his pontifical habit, receives him as a knight of the Holy Sepulchre, arraying
him in the armour of Godfrey of Bouillon, and placing his sword in the hands of Magius. His
arrival at Bethlehem, to see the cradle of the Lord--and his return by Jaffa with his companions,
in the dress of pilgrims; the groups are finely contrasted with the Turks mingling amongst them.

The taking of the city of Famagusta, and his slavery.--The middle figure, with a dog at its
feet, represents Fidelity, the character of Magius, who ever preferred it to his life or his
freedom, inscribed Captivat--"She has reduced me to slavery." Six smaller pictures exhibit
the different points of the island of Cyprus where the Turks effected their descents. Magius
retreating to Famagusta, which he long defended, and where his cousin, a skilful engineer,
was killed. The Turks compelled to raise the siege, but return with greater forces--the sacking
of the town and the palace, where Magius was taken.--One picture exhibits him brought before
a bashaw, who has him stripped, to judge of his strength and fix his price, when, after examination,
he is sent among other slaves. He is seen bound and tied up among his companions in misfortune--again
he is forced to labour, and carries a cask of water on his shoulders.--In another picture,
his master, finding him weak of body, conducts him to a slave-merchant to sell him. In another
we see him leading an ass loaded with packages; his new master, finding him loitering on his
way, showers his blows on him, while a soldier is seen purloining one of the packages from
the ass. Another exhibits Magius sinking with fatigue on the sands, while his master would
raise him up by an unsparing use of the bastinado. The varied details of these little paintings
are pleasingly executed.

The close of his slavery.--The middle figure kneeling to Heaven, and a light breaking from
it, inscribed, "He breaks my chains," to express the confidence of Magius. The Turks are seen
landing with their pillage and their slaves.--In one of the pictures are seen two ships on
fire; a young lady of Cyprus preferring death to the loss of her honour and the miseries of
slavery, determined to set fire to the vessel in which she was carried; she succeeded, and
the flames communicated to another.

His return to Venice.--The painter for his principal figure has chosen a Pallas, with a helmet
on her head, the ægis on one arm, and her lance in the other, to describe the courage with
which Magius had supported his misfortunes, inscribed Reducit--"She brings me back." In the
last of the compartments he is seen at the custom-house at Venice; he enters the house of his
father; the old man hastens to meet him, and embraces him.

One page is filled by a single picture, which represents the senate of Venice, with the Doge
on his throne; Magius presents an account of his different employments, and holds in his hand
a scroll, on which is written, Quod commisisti perfeci; quod restat agendum, pare fide complectar--"I
have done what you committed to my care; and I will perform with the same fidelity what remains
to be done." He is received by the senate with the most distinguished honours, and is not only
justified, but praised and honoured.

The most magnificent of these paintings is the one attributed to Paul Veronese. It is described
by the Duke de la Vallière as almost unparalleled for its richness, its elegance, and its brilliancy.
It is inscribed Pater meus et fratres mei dereliquerunt me; Dominus autem assumpsit me!--"My
father and my brothers abandoned me; but the Lord took me under his protection." This is an
allusion to the accusation raised against him in the open senate when the Turks took the Isle
of Cyprus, and his family wanted either the confidence or the courage to defend Magius. In
the front of this large picture, Magius leading his son by the hand, conducts him to be reconciled
with his brothers and sisters-in-law, who are on the opposite side; his hand holds this scroll,
Vos cogitastis de me malum; sed Deus convertit illud in bonum--"You thought ill of me; but
the Lord has turned it to good." In this he alludes to the satisfaction he had given the senate,
and to the honours they had decreed him. Another scene is introduced, where Magius appears
in a magnificent hall at a table in the midst of all his family, with whom a general reconciliation
has taken place: on his left hand are gardens opening with an enchanting effect, and magnificently
ornamented, with the villa of his father, on which flowers and wreaths seem dropping on the
roof, as if from heaven. In the perspective, the landscape probably represents the rural neighbourhood
of Magius's early days.

Such are the most interesting incidents which I have selected from the copious description
of the Duke de la Vallière. The idea of this production is new: an autobiography in a series
of remarkable scenes, painted under the eye of the describer of them, in which, too, he has
preserved all the fulness of his feelings and his minutest recollections; but the novelty becomes
interesting from the character of the noble Magius, and the romantic fancy which inspired this
elaborate and costly curiosity. It was not, indeed, without some trouble that I have drawn
up this little account; but while thus employed, I seemed to be composing a very uncommon romance.

FOOTNOTE:

  [83] The Duke's description is not to be found, as might be
    expected, in his own valued catalogue, but was a contribution to
    Gaignat's, ii. 16, where it occupies fourteen pages. This singular
    work sold at Gaignat's sale for 902 livres. It was then the golden
    age of literary curiosity, when the rarest things were not ruinous;
    and that price was even then considered extraordinary, though the
    work was an unique. It must consist of about 180 subjects, by
    Italian artists.

CAUSE AND PRETEXT.

It is an important principle in morals and in politics, not to mistake the cause for the pretext,
nor the pretext for the cause, and by this means to distinguish between the concealed and the
ostensible motive. On this principle, history might be recomposed in a new manner; it would
not often describe circumstances and characters as they usually appear. When we mistake the
characters of men, we mistake the nature of their actions; and we shall find in the study of
secret history, that some of the most important events in modern history were produced from
very different motives than their ostensible ones. Polybius, the most philosophical writer
of the ancients, has marked out this useful distinction of cause and pretext, and aptly illustrates
the observation by the facts which he explains. Amilcar, for instance, was the first author
and contriver of the second Punic war, though he died ten years before the commencement of
it. "A statesman," says the wise and grave historian, "who knows not how to trace the origin
of events, and discern the different sources from whence they take their rise, may be compared
to a physician who neglects to inform himself of the causes of those distempers which he is
called in to cure. Our pains can never be better employed than in searching out the causes
of events; for the most trifling incidents give birth to matters of the greatest moment and
importance." The latter part of this remark of Polybius points out another principle which
has been often verified by history, and which furnished the materials of the little book of
"Grands Evénemens par les petites Causes."

Our present inquiry concerns "cause and pretext."

Leo X. projected an alliance of the sovereigns of Christendom against the Turks. The avowed
object was to oppose the progress of the Ottomans against the Mamelukes of Egypt, who were
more friendly to the Christians; but the concealed motive with his holiness was to enrich himself
and his family with the spoils of Christendom, and to aggrandise the papal throne by war; and
such, indeed, the policy of these pontiffs had always been in those mad crusades which they
excited against the East.

The Reformation, excellent as its results have proved in the cause of genuine freedom, originated
in no purer source than human passions and selfish motives: it was the progeny of avarice in
Germany, of novelty in France, and of love in England. The latter is elegantly alluded to by Gray--

  And gospel-light first beam'd from Bullen's eyes.

The Reformation is considered by the Duke of Nevers, in a work printed in 1590, as it had been
by Francis I., in his Apology in 1537, as a coup-d'état of Charles V. towards universal monarchy.
The duke says, that the emperor silently permitted Luther to establish his principles in Germany,
that they might split the confederacy of the elective princes, and by this division facilitate
their more easy conquest, and play them off one against another, and by these means to secure
the imperial crown hereditary in the house of Austria. Had Charles V. not been the mere creature
of his politics, and had he felt any zeal for the Catholic cause, which he pretended to fight
for, never would he have allowed the new doctrines to spread for more than twenty years without
the least opposition.

The famous League in France was raised for "religion and the relief of public grievances;"
such was the pretext! After the princes and the people had alike become its victims, this "league"
was discovered to have been formed by the pride and the ambition of the Guises, aided by the
machinations of the Jesuits against the attempts of the Prince of Condé to dislodge them from
their "seat of power." While the Huguenots pillaged, burnt, and massacred, declaring in their
manifestoes that they were only fighting to release the king, whom they asserted was a prisoner
of the Guises, the Catholics repaid them with the same persecution and the same manifestoes,
declaring that they only wished to liberate the Prince of Condé, who was the prisoner of the
Huguenots. The people were led on by the cry of "religion;" but this civil war was not in reality
so much Catholic against Huguenot, as Guise against Condé. A parallel event occurred between
our Charles I. and the Scotch Covenanters; and the king expressly declared, in "a large declaration,
concerning the late tumults in Scotland," that "religion is only pretended, and used by them
as a cloak to palliate their intended rebellion," which he demonstrated by the facts he alleged.
There was a revolutionary party in France, which, taking the name of Frondeurs, shook that
kingdom under the administration of Cardinal Mazarin, and held out for their pretext the public
freedom. But that faction, composed of some of the discontented French princes and the mob,
was entirely organized by Cardinal de Retz, who held them in hand, to check or to spur them
as the occasion required, from a mere personal pique against Mazarin, who had not treated that
vivacious genius with all the deference he exacted. This appears from his own Memoirs.

We have smiled at James I. threatening the States-general by the English ambassador, about
Vorstius, a Dutch professor, who had espoused the doctrines of Arminius against those of the
contra-remonstrants, or Calvinists; the ostensible subject was religious, or rather metaphysical-religious
doctrines, but the concealed one was a struggle for predominance between the Pensionary Barnevelt,
assisted by the French interest, and the Prince of Orange, supported by the English. "These
were the real sources," says Lord Hardwicke, a statesman and a man of letters, deeply conversant
with secret and public history, and a far more able judge than Diodati the Swiss divine, and
Brandt the ecclesiastical historian, who in the synod of Dort could see nothing but what appeared
in it, and gravely narrated the idle squabbles on phrases concerning predestination or grace.
Hales, of Eaton, who was secretary to the English ambassador at this synod, perfectly accords
with the account of Lord Hardwicke. "Our synod," writes that judicious observer, "goes on like
a watch; the main wheels upon which the whole business turns are least in sight; for all things
of moment are acted in private sessions; what is done in public is only for show and entertainment."

The cause of the persecution of the Jansenists was the jealousy of the Jesuits; the pretext
was la grace suffisante. The learned La Croze observes, that the same circumstance occurred
in the affair of Nestorius and the church of Alexandria; the pretext was orthodoxy, the cause
was the jealousy of the church of Alexandria, or rather the fiery and turbulent Cyril, who
personally hated Nestorius. The opinions of Nestorius, and the council which condemned them,
were the same in effect. I only produce this remote fact to prove that ancient times do not
alter the truth of our principle.

When James II. was so strenuous an advocate for toleration and liberty of conscience in removing
the Test Act, this enlightened principle of government was only a pretext with that monk-ridden
monarch; it is well known that the cause was to introduce and make the Catholics predominant
in his councils and government. The result, which that eager and blind politician hurried on
too fast, and which therefore did not take place, would have been that "liberty of conscience"
would soon have become an "overt act of treason" before an inquisition of his Jesuits!

In all political affairs drop the pretexts and strike at the causes; we may thus understand
what the heads of parties may choose to conceal.

POLITICAL FORGERIES AND FICTIONS.

A writer, whose learning gives value to his eloquence, in his Bampton Lectures has censured,
with that liberal spirit so friendly to the cause of truth, the calumnies and rumours of parties,
which are still industriously retailed, though they have been often confuted. Forged documents
are still referred to, or tales unsupported by evidence are confidently quoted. Mr. Heber's
subject confined his inquiries to theological history; he has told us that "Augustin is not
ashamed, in his dispute with Faustus, to take advantage of the popular slanders against the
followers of Manes, though his own experience (for he had himself been of that sect) was sufficient
to detect this falsehood." The Romanists, in spite of satisfactory answers, have continued
to urge against the English protestant the romance of Parker's consecration;[84] while the
protestant persists in falsely imputing to the catholic public formularies the systematic omission
of the second commandment. "The calumnies of Rimius and Stinstra against the Moravian brethren
are cases in point," continues Mr. Heber. "No one now believes them, yet they once could deceive
even Warburton!" We may also add the obsolete calumny of Jews crucifying boys--of which a monument
raised to Hugh of Lincoln perpetuates the memory, and which a modern historian records without
any scruple of doubt; several authorities, which are cited on this occasion, amount only to
the single one of Matthew Paris, who gives it as a popular rumour. Such accusations usually
happened when the Jews were too rich and the king was too poor![85]

The falsehoods and forgeries raised by parties are overwhelming! It startles a philosopher,
in the calm of his study, when he discovers how writers, who, we may presume, are searchers
after truth, should, in fact, turn out to be searchers after the grossest fictions. This alters
the habits of the literary man: it is an unnatural depravity of his pursuits--and it proves
that the personal is too apt to predominate over the literary character.

I have already touched on the main point of the present article in the one on "Political Nicknames."
I have there shown how political calumny appears to have been reduced into an art; one of its
branches would be that of converting forgeries and fictions into historical authorities.

When one nation is at war with another, there is no doubt that the two governments connive
at, and often encourage, the most atrocious libels on each other, to madden the people to preserve
their independence, and contribute cheerfully to the expenses of the war. France and England
formerly complained of Holland--the Athenians employed the same policy against the Macedonians
and Persians. Such is the origin of a vast number of supposititious papers and volumes, which
sometimes, at a remote date, confound the labours of the honest historian, and too often serve
the purposes of the dishonest, with whom they become authorities. The crude and suspicious
libels which were drawn out of their obscurity in Cromwell's time against James the First have
overloaded the character of that monarch, yet are now eagerly referred to by party writers,
though in their own days they were obsolete and doubtful. During the civil wars of Charles
the First such spurious documents exist in the forms of speeches which were never spoken; of
letters never written by the names subscribed; printed declarations never declared; battles
never fought, and victories never obtained! Such is the language of Rushworth, who complains
of this evil spirit of party forgeries, while he is himself suspected of having rescinded or
suppressed whatever was not agreeable to his patron Cromwell. A curious, and perhaps a necessary
list might be drawn up of political forgeries of our own, which have been sometimes referred
to as genuine, but which are the inventions of wits and satirists! Bayle ingeniously observes,
that at the close of every century such productions should be branded by a skilful discriminator,
to save the future inquirer from errors he can hardly avoid. "How many are still kept in error
by the satires of the sixteenth century! Those of the present age will be no less active in
future ages, for they will still be preserved in public libraries."

The art and skill with which some have fabricated a forged narrative render its detection almost
hopeless. When young Maitland, the brother to the secretary, in order to palliate the crime
of the assassination of the Regent Murray, was employed to draw up a pretended conference between
him, Knox, and others, to stigmatise them by the odium of advising to dethrone the young monarch,
and to substitute the regent for their sovereign, Maitland produced so dramatic a performance,
by giving to each person his peculiar mode of expression, that this circumstance long baffled
the incredulity of those who could not in consequence deny the truth of a narrative apparently
so correct in its particulars! "The fiction of the warming-pan enclosing the young Pretender
brought more adherents to the cause of the Whigs than the Bill of Rights," observes Lord John
Russell.

Among such party narratives, the horrid tale of the bloody Colonel Kirk has been worked up
by Hume with all his eloquence and pathos; and, from its interest, no suspicion has arisen
of its truth. Yet, so far as it concerns Kirk, or the reign of James the Second, or even English
history, it is, as Ritson too honestly expresses it, "an impudent and a bare-faced lie!" The
simple fact is told by Kennet in a few words: he probably was aware of the nature of this political
fiction. Hume was not, indeed, himself the fabricator of the tale; but he had not any historical
authority. The origin of this fable was probably a pious fraud of the Whig party, to whom Kirk
had rendered himself odious; at that moment stories still more terrifying were greedily swallowed,
and which, Ritson insinuates, have become a part of the history of England. The original story,
related more circumstantially, though not more affectingly, nor perhaps more truly, may be
found in Wanley's "Wonders of the Little World,"[86] which I give, relieving it from the tediousness
of old Wanley.

A governor of Zealand, under the bold Duke of Burgundy, had in vain sought to seduce the affections
of the beautiful wife of a citizen. The governor imprisons the husband on an accusation of
treason; and when the wife appeared as the suppliant, the governor, after no brief eloquence,
succeeded as a lover, on the plea that her husband's life could only be spared by her compliance.
The woman, in tears and in aversion, and not without a hope of vengeance only delayed, lost
her honour! Pointing to the prison, the governor told her, "If you seek your husband, enter
there, and take him along with you!" The wife, in the bitterness of her thoughts, yet not without
the consolation that she had snatched her husband from the grave, passed into the prison; there
in a cell, to her astonishment and horror, she beheld the corpse of her husband laid out in
a coffin, ready for burial! Mourning over it, she at length returned to the governor, fiercely
exclaiming, "You have kept your word! you have restored to me my husband! and be assured the
favour shall be repaid!" The inhuman villain, terrified in the presence of his intrepid victim,
attempted to appease her vengeance, and more, to win her to his wishes. Returning home, she
assembled her friends, revealed her whole story, and under their protection she appealed to
Charles the Bold, a strict lover of justice, and who now awarded a singular but an exemplary
catastrophe. The duke first commanded that the criminal governor should instantly marry the
woman whom he had made a widow, and at the same time sign his will, with a clause importing
that should he die before his lady he constituted her his heiress. All this was concealed from
both sides, rather to satisfy the duke than the parties themselves. This done, the unhappy
woman was dismissed alone! The governor was conducted to the prison to suffer the same death
he had inflicted on the husband of his wife; and when this lady was desired once more to enter
the prison, she beheld her second husband headless in his coffin as she had her first! Such
extraordinary incidents in so short a period overpowered the feeble frame of the sufferer;
she died--leaving a son, who inherited the rich accession of fortune so fatally obtained by
his injured and suffering mother.

Such is the tale of which the party story of Kirk appeared to Ritson to have been a rifacimento;
but it is rather the foundation than the superstructure. This critic was right in the general,
but not in the particular. It was not necessary to point out the present source, when so many
others of a parallel nature exist. This tale, universally told, Mr. Douce considers as the
origin of Measure for Measure, and was probably some traditional event; for it appears sometimes
with a change of names and places, without any of incident. It always turns on a soldier, a
brother or a husband, executed; and a wife, a sister, a deceived victim, to save them from
death. It was, therefore, easily transferred to Kirk, and Pomfret's poem of "Cruelty and Lust"
long made the story popular. It could only have been in this form that it reached the historian,
who, it must be observed, introduces it as a "story commonly told of him;" but popular tragic
romances should not enter into the dusty documents of a history of England, and much less be
particularly specified in the index! Belleforest, in his old version of the tale, has even
the circumstance of the "captain, who having seduced the wife under the promise to save her
husband's life, exhibited him soon afterwards through the window of her apartment suspended
on a gibbet." This forms the horrid incident in the history of "the bloody Colonel," and served
the purpose of a party, who wished to bury him in odium. Kirk was a soldier of fortune, and
a loose liver, and a great blusterer, who would sometimes threaten to decimate his own regiment,
but is said to have forgotten the menace the next day. Hateful as such military men will always
be, in the present instance Colonel Kirk has been shamefully calumniated by poets and historians,
who suffer themselves to be duped by the forgeries of political parties![87]

While we are detecting a source of error into which the party feelings of modern historians
may lead them, let us confess that they are far more valuable than the ancient; for to us at
least the ancients have written history without producing authorities! Modern historians must
furnish their readers with the truest means to become their critics, by providing them with
their authorities; and it is only by judiciously appreciating these that we may confidently
accept their discoveries. Unquestionably the ancients have often introduced into their histories
many tales similar to the story of Kirk--popular or party forgeries! The mellifluous copiousness
of Livy conceals many a tale of wonder; the graver of Tacitus etches many a fatal stroke; and
the secret history of Suetonius too often raises a suspicion of those whispers, Quid rex in
aurem reginæ dixerit, quid Juno fabulata sit cum Jove. It is certain that Plutarch has often
told, and varied too in the telling, the same story, which he has applied to different persons.
A critic in the Ritsonian style has said of the grave Plutarch, Mendax ille Plutarchus qui
vitas oratorum, dolis et erroribus consutas, olim conscribillavit.[88] "That lying Plutarch,
who formerly scribbled the lives of the orators, made up of falsities and blunders!" There
is in Italian a scarce book, of a better design than execution, of the Abbate Lancellotti,
Farfalloni degli Antichi Historici.--"Flim-flams of the Ancients." Modern historians have to
dispute their passage to immortality step by step; and however fervid be their eloquence, their
real test as to value must be brought to the humble references in their margin. Yet these must
not terminate our inquiries; for in tracing a story to its original source we shall find that
fictions have been sometimes grafted on truths or hearsays, and to separate them as they appeared
in their first stage is the pride and glory of learned criticism.

FOOTNOTES:

  [84] Absurdly reported to have taken place at a meeting in the
    Nag's-head Tavern, Cheapside.

  [85] M. Michel published in Paris, in 1834, a collection of poems
    and ballads concerning Hugh of Lincoln, which were all very popular
    at home and abroad in the Middle Ages. One of these, preserved in an
    Anglo-Norman MS. in the Bibliothèque Royale at Paris, was evidently
    constructed to be sung by the people soon after the event, which is
    stated to have happened in the reign of our Henry III.; but there
    are many ballads comparatively modern which show how carefully the
    story was kept before the populace; and may be seen in the
    collections of Bishop Percy, Jameson, Motherwell, &c.

  [86] Book iii. ch. 29, sec. 18.

  [87] A story still more absurd was connected with the name of
    Colonel Lunsford, a soldier who consistently defended Charles I.,
    and was killed in 1643. It is related by Echard as reported of him,
    that he would kill and eat the children of the opposite party. This
    horridly grotesque imputation has been preserved in the political
    ballads and poetry of the day. Cleveland ridicules it in one of his
    poems, where he makes a Roundhead declare--

      "He swore he saw, when Lunsford fell,
      A child's arm in his pocket."

  [88] Taylor, Annot. ad Lysiam.

EXPRESSION OF SUPPRESSED OPINION.

A people denied the freedom of speech or of writing have usually left some memorials of their
feelings in that silent language which addresses itself to the eye. Many ingenious inventions
have been contrived to give vent to their suppressed indignation. The voluminous grievance
which they could not trust to the voice or the pen they have carved in wood, or sculptured
on stone; and have sometimes even facetiously concealed their satire among the playful ornaments
designed to amuse those of whom they so fruitlessly complained! Such monuments of the suppressed
feelings of the multitude are not often inspected by the historian--their minuteness escapes
all eyes but those of the philosophical antiquary; nor are these satirical appearances always
considered as grave authorities, which unquestionably they will be found to be by a close observer
of human nature. An entertaining history of the modes of thinking, or the discontents of a
people, drawn from such dispersed efforts in every æra, would cast a new light of secret history
over many dark intervals.

Did we possess a secret history of the Saturnalia, it would doubtless have afforded some materials
for the present article. In those revels of venerable radicalism, when the senate was closed,
and the Pileus, or cap of liberty, was triumphantly worn, all things assumed an appearance
contrary to what they were; and human nature, as well as human laws, might be said to have
been parodied. Among so many whimsical regulations in favour of the licentious rabble, there
was one which forbad the circulation of money; if any one offered the coin of the state, it
was to be condemned as an act of madness, and the man was brought to his senses by a penitential
fast for that day. An ingenious French antiquary seems to have discovered a class of wretched
medals, cast in lead or copper, which formed the circulating medium of these mob lords, who,
to ridicule the idea of money, used the basest metals, stamping them with grotesque figures,
or odd devices--such as a sow; a chimerical bird; an imperator in his car, with a monkey behind
him; or an old woman's head, Acca Laurentia, either the traditional old nurse of Romulus, or
an old courtesan of the same name, who bequeathed the fruits of her labours to the Roman people!
As all things were done in mockery, this base metal is stamped with S. C., to ridicule the
Senatûs consulto, which our antiquary happily explains,[89] in the true spirit of this government
of mockery, Saturnalium consulto, agreeing with the legend of the reverse, inscribed in the
midst of four tali, or bones, which they used as dice, Qui ludit arram det, quod satis sit--"Let
them who play give a pledge, which will be sufficient." This mock-money served not only as
an expression of the native irony of the radical gentry of Rome during their festival, but,
had they spoken their mind out, meant a ridicule of money itself; for these citizens of equality
have always imagined that society might proceed without this contrivance of a medium which
served to represent property in which they themselves must so little participate.

A period so glorious for exhibiting the suppressed sentiments of the populace as were these
Saturnalia, had been nearly lost for us, had not some notions been preserved by Lucian; for
we glean but sparingly from the solemn pages of the historian, except in the remarkable instance
which Suetonius has preserved of the arch-mime who followed the body of the Emperor Vespasian
at his funeral. This officer, as well as a similar one who accompanied the general to whom
they granted a triumph, and who was allowed the unrestrained licentiousness of his tongue,
were both the organs of popular feeling, and studied to gratify the rabble, who were their
real masters. On this occasion the arch-mime, representing both the exterior personage and
the character of Vespasian, according to custom, inquired the expense of the funeral? He was
answered, "ten millions of sesterces!" In allusion to the love of money which characterised
the emperor, his mock representative exclaimed, "Give me the money, and, if you will, throw
my body into the Tiber!"

All these mock offices and festivals among the ancients I consider as organs of the suppressed
opinions and feelings of the populace, who were allowed no other, and had not the means of
the printing ages to leave any permanent records. At a later period, before the discovery of
the art which multiplies with such facility libels or panegyrics, when the people could not
speak freely against those rapacious clergy who sheared the fleece and cared not for the sheep,
many a secret of popular indignation was confided not to books (for they could not read), but
to pictures and sculptures, which are books which the people can always read. The sculptors
and illuminators of those times no doubt shared in common the popular feelings, and boldly
trusted to the paintings or the carvings which met the eyes of their luxurious and indolent
masters their satirical inventions. As far back as in 1300, we find in Wolfius[90] the description
of a picture of this kind, in a MS. of Æsop's Fables found in the Abbey of Fulda, among other
emblems of the corrupt lives of the churchmen. The present was a wolf, large as life, wearing
a monkish cowl, with a shaven crown, preaching to a flock of sheep, with these words of the
apostle in a label from his mouth--"God is my witness how I long for you all in my bowels!"
And underneath was inscribed--"This hooded wolf is the hypocrite of whom is said in the Gospel,
'Beware of false prophets!'" Such exhibitions were often introduced into articles of furniture.
A cushion was found in an old abbey, in which was worked a fox preaching to geese, each goose
holding in his bill his praying beads! In the stone wall, and on the columns of the great church
at Strasburg, was once viewed a number of wolves, bears, foxes, and other mischievous animals,
carrying holy water, crucifixes, and tapers; and others more indelicate. These, probably as
old as the year 1300, were engraven in 1617 by a protestant; and were not destroyed till 1685,
by the pious rage of the catholics, who seemed at length to have rightly construed these silent
lampoons; and in their turn broke to pieces the protestant images, as the others had done the
papistical dolls. The carved seats and stalls in our own cathedrals exhibit subjects not only
strange and satirical, but even indecent.[91] At the time they built churches they satirised
the ministers; a curious instance how the feelings of the people struggle to find a vent. It
is conjectured that rival orders satirised each other, and that some of the carvings are caricatures
of certain monks. The margins of illuminated manuscripts frequently contain ingenious caricatures,
or satirical allegories. In a magnificent chronicle of Froissart I observed several. A wolf,
as usual, in a monk's frock and cowl, stretching his paw to bless a cock, bending its head
submissively to the wolf: or a fox with a crosier, dropping beads, which a cock is picking
up; to satirise the blind devotion of the bigots; perhaps the figure of the cock alluded to
our Gallic neighbours. A cat in the habit of a nun, holding a platter in its paws to a mouse
approaching to lick it; alluding to the allurements of the abbesses to draw young women into
their convents; while sometimes I have seen a sow in an abbess's veil, mounted on stilts: the
sex marked by the sow's dugs. A pope sometimes appears to be thrust by devils into a cauldron;
and cardinals are seen roasting on spits! These ornaments must have been generally executed
by the monks themselves; but these more ingenious members of the ecclesiastical order appear
to have sympathised with the people, like the curates in our church, and envied the pampered
abbot and the purple bishop. Churchmen were the usual objects of the suppressed indignation
of the people in those days; but the knights and feudal lords have not always escaped from
the "curses not loud, but deep," of their satirical pencils.

As the Reformation, or rather the Revolution, was hastening, this custom became so general,
that in one of the dialogues of Erasmus, where two Franciscans are entertained by their host,
it appears that such satirical exhibitions were hung up as common furniture in the apartments
of inns. The facetious genius of Erasmus either invents or describes one which he had seen
of an ape in the habit of a Franciscan sitting by a sick man's bed, dispensing ghostly counsel,
holding up a crucifix in one hand, while with the other he is filching a purse out of the sick
man's pocket. Such are "the straws" by which we may always observe from what corner the wind
rises! Mr. Dibdin has recently informed us, that Geyler, whom he calls "the herald of the Reformation,"
preceding Luther by twelve years, had a stone chair or pulpit in the cathedral at Strasburg,
from which he delivered his lectures, or rather rolled the thunders of his anathemas against
the monks. This stone pulpit was constructed under his own superintendence, and is covered
with very indecent figures of monks and nuns, expressly designed by him to expose their profligate
manners. We see Geyler doing what for centuries had been done!

In the curious folios of Sauval, the Stowe of France, there is a copious chapter, entitled
"Hérétiques, leurs attentats." In this enumeration of their attempts to give vent to their
suppressed indignation, it is very remarkable that, preceding the time of Luther, the minds
of many were perfectly Lutheran respecting the idolatrous worship of the Roman Church; and
what I now notice would have rightly entered into that significant Historia Reformationis ante
Reformationem, which was formerly projected by continental writers.

Luther did not consign the pope's decretals to the flames till 1520--this was the first open
act of reformation and insurrection, for hitherto he had submitted to the court of Rome. Yet
in 1490, thirty years preceding this great event, I find a priest burnt for having snatched
the host in derision from the hands of another celebrating mass. Twelve years afterwards, 1502,
a student repeated the same deed, trampling on it; and in 1523, the resolute death of Anne
de Bourg, a counsellor in the parliament of Paris, to use the expression of Sauval, "corrupted
the world." It is evident that the Huguenots were fast on the increase. From that period I
find continued accounts which prove that the Huguenots of France, like the Puritans of England,
were most resolute iconoclasts. They struck off the heads of Virgins and little Jesuses, or
blunted their daggers by chipping the wooden saints, which were then fixed at the corners of
streets. Every morning discovered the scandalous treatment they had undergone in the night.
Then their images were painted on the walls, but these were heretically scratched and disfigured:
and, since the saints could not defend themselves, a royal edict was published in their favour,
commanding that all holy paintings in the streets should not be allowed short of ten feet from
the ground! They entered churches at night, tearing up or breaking down the prians, the bénitoires,
the crucifixes, the colossal ecce-homos, which they did not always succeed in dislodging for
want of time or tools. Amidst these battles with wooden adversaries, we may smile at the frequent
solemn processions instituted to ward off the vengeance of the parish saint; the wooden was
expiated by a silver image, secured by iron bars and attended by the king and the nobility,
carrying the new saint, with prayers that he would protect himself from the heretics!

In an early period of the Reformation, an instance occurs of the art of concealing what we
wish only the few should comprehend, at the same time that we are addressing the public. Curious
collectors are acquainted with "The Olivetan Bible;" this was the first translation published
by the protestants, and there seems no doubt that Calvin was the chief, if not the only translator;
but at that moment not choosing to become responsible for this new version, he made use of
the name of an obscure relative, Robert Pierre Olivetan. Calvin, however, prefixed a Latin
preface, remarkable for delivering positions very opposite to those tremendous doctrines of
absolute predestination which, in his theological despotism, he afterwards assumed. De Bure
describes this first protestant Bible not only as rare, but, when found, as usually imperfect,
much soiled and dog-eared, as the well-read first edition of Shakspeare, by the perpetual use
of the multitude. But a curious fact has escaped the detection both of De Bure and Beloe; at
the end of the volume are found ten verses, which, in a concealed manner, authenticate the
translation; and which no one, unless initiated into the secret, could possibly suspect. The
verses are not poetical, but I give the first sentence:--

  Lecteur entends, si vérité adresse
  Viens donc ouyr instament sa promesse
  Et vif parler----&c.

The first letters of every word of these ten verses form a perfect distich, containing information
important to those to whom the Olivetan Bible was addressed.

  Les Vaudois, peuple évangélique,
  Ont mis ce thrésor en publique.

An anagram would have been too inartificial a contrivance to have answered the purpose of concealing
from the world at large this secret. There is an adroitness in the invention of the initial
letters of all the words through these ten verses. They contained a communication necessary
to authenticate the version, but which, at the same time, could not be suspected by any person
not intrusted with the secret.

When the art of medal-engraving was revived in Europe, the spirit we are now noticing took
possession of those less perishable and more circulating vehicles. Satiric medals were almost
unknown to the ancient mint, notwithstanding those of the Saturnalia, and a few which bear
miserable puns on the unlucky names of some consuls. Medals illustrate history, and history
reflects light on medals; but we should not place such unreserved confidence on medals as their
advocates, who are warm in their favourite study. It has been asserted that medals are more
authentic memorials than history itself; but a medal is not less susceptible of the bad passions
than a pamphlet or an epigram. Ambition has its vanity, and engraves a dubious victory; and
Flattery will practise its art, and deceive us in gold! A calumny or a fiction on metal may
be more durable than on a fugitive page; and a libel has a better chance of being preserved
when the artist is skilful, than simple truths when miserably executed. Medals of this class
are numerous, and were the precursors of those political satires exhibited in caricature prints.[92]
There is a large collection of wooden cuts about the time of Calvin, where the Romish religion
is represented by the most grotesque forms which the ridicule of the early Reformers could
invent. More than a thousand figures attest the exuberant satire of the designers. This work
is equally rare and costly.[93]

Satires of this species commenced in the freedom of the Reformation; for we find a medal of
Luther in a monk's habit, satirically bearing for its reverse Catherine de Bora, the nun whom
this monk married; the first step of his personal reformation! Nor can we be certain that Catherine
was not more concerned in that great revolution than appears in the voluminous Lives we have
of the great reformer. However, the reformers were as great sticklers for medals as the "papelins."
Of Pope John VIII., an effeminate voluptuary, we have a medal with his portrait, inscribed
Pope Joan! and another of Innocent X., dressed as a woman holding a spindle; the reverse, his
famous mistress, Donna Olympia, dressed as a Pope, with the tiara on her head, and the keys
of St. Peter in her hands![94]

When, in the reign of Mary, England was groaning under Spanish influence, and no remonstrance
could reach the throne, the queen's person and government were made ridiculous to the people's
eyes by prints or pictures "representing her majesty naked, meagre, withered, and wrinkled,
with every aggravated circumstance of deformity that could disgrace a female figure, seated
in a regal chair; a crown on her head, surrounded with M. R. and A. in capitals, accompanied
by small letters; Maria Regina Angliæ! a number of Spaniards were sucking her to skin and bone,
and a specification was added of the money, rings, jewels, and other presents with which she
had secretly gratified her husband Philip."[95] It is said that the queen suspected some of
her own council of this invention, who alone were privy to these transactions. It is, however,
in this manner that the voice which is suppressed by authority comes at length in another shape
to the eye.

The age of Elizabeth, when the Roman pontiff and all his adherents were odious to the people,
produced a remarkable caricature, and ingenious invention--a gorgon's head! A church bell forms
the helmet; the ornaments, instead of the feathers, are a wolf's head in a mitre devouring
a lamb, an ass's head with spectacles reading, a goose holding a rosary: the face is made out
with a fish for the nose, a chalice and water for the eye, and other priestly ornaments for
the shoulder and breast, on which rolls of parchment pardons hang.[96]

A famous bishop of Munster, Bernard de Galen, who, in his charitable violence for converting
protestants, got himself into such celebrity that he appears to have served as an excellent
sign-post to the inns in Germany, was the true church militant: and his figure was exhibited
according to the popular fancy. His head was half mitre and half helmet; a crosier in one hand
and a sabre in the other; half a rochet and half a cuirass: he was made performing mass as
a dragoon on horseback, and giving out the charge when he ought the Ite, missa est! He was
called the converter! and the "Bishop of Munster" became popular as a sign-post in German towns;
for the people like fighting men, though they should even fight against themselves.

It is rather curious to observe of this new species of satire, so easily distributed among
the people, and so directly addressed to their understandings, that it was made the vehicle
of national feeling. Ministers of state condescended to invent the devices. Lord Orford says
that caricatures on cards were the invention of George Townshend in the affair of Byng, which
was soon followed by a pack. I am informed of an ancient pack of cards which has caricatures
of all the Parliamentarian Generals, which might be not unusefully shuffled by a writer of
secret history.[97] We may be surprised to find the grave Sully practising this artifice on
several occasions. In the civil wars of France the Duke of Savoy had taken by surprise Saluces,
and struck a medal; on the reverse a centaur appears shooting with a bow and arrow, with the
legend Opportune! But when Henry the Fourth had reconquered the town, he published another,
on which Hercules appears killing the centaur, with the word Opportunius. The great minister
was the author of this retort![98] A medal of the Dutch ambassador at the court of France,
Van Beuninghen, whom the French represent as a haughty burgomaster, but who had the vivacity
of a Frenchman and the haughtiness of a Spaniard, as Voltaire characterises him, is said to
have been the occasion of the Dutch war in 1672; but wars will be hardly made for an idle medal.
Medals may, however, indicate a preparatory war. Louis the Fourteenth was so often compared
to the sun at its meridian, that some of his creatures may have imagined that, like the sun,
he could dart into any part of Europe as he willed, and be as cheerfully received.[99] The
Dutch minister, whose Christian name was Joshua, however, had a medal struck of Joshua stopping
the sun in his course, inferring that this miracle was operated by his little republic. The
medal itself is engraven in Van Loon's voluminous Histoire Médallique du Pays Bas, and in Marchand's
Dictionnaire Historique, who labours to prove against twenty authors that the Dutch ambassador
was not the inventor; it was not, however, unworthy of him, and it conveyed to the world the
high feeling of her power which Holland had then assumed. Two years after the noise about this
medal the republic paid dear for the device; but thirty years afterwards this very burgomaster
concluded a glorious peace, and France and Spain were compelled to receive the mediation of
the Dutch Joshua with the French Sun.[100] In these vehicles of national satire, it is odd
that the phlegmatic Dutch, more than any other nation, and from the earliest period of their
republic, should have indulged freely, if not licentiously. It was a republican humour. Their
taste was usually gross. We owe to them, even in the reign of Elizabeth, a severe medal on
Leicester, who, having retired in disgust from the government of their provinces, struck a
medal with his bust, reverse a dog and sheep,

  Non gregem, sed ingratos invitus desero;

on which the angry juvenile states struck another, representing an ape and young ones; reverse,
Leicester near a fire,

  Fugiens fumum, incidit in ignem.

Another medal, with an excellent portrait of Cromwell, was struck by the Dutch. The Protector,
crowned with laurels, is on his knees, laying his head in the lap of the commonwealth, but
loosely exhibiting himself to the French and Spanish ambassadors with gross indecency: the
Frenchman, covered with fleur de lis, is pushing aside the grave Don, and disputes with him
the precedence--Retire-toy; l'honneur appartient au roy mon maitre, Louis le Grand. Van Loon
is very right in denouncing this same medal, so grossly flattering to the English, as most
detestable and indelicate! But why does Van Loon envy us this lumpish invention? why does the
Dutchman quarrel with his own cheese? The honour of the medal we claim, but the invention belongs
to his country. The Dutch went on commenting in this manner on English affairs from reign to
reign. Charles the Second declared war against them in 1672 for a malicious medal, though the
States-General offered to break the die, by purchasing it of the workman for one thousand ducats;
but it served for a pretext for a Dutch war, which Charles cared more about than the mala bestia
of his exergue. Charles also complained of a scandalous picture which the brothers de Witt
had in their house, representing a naval battle with the English. Charles the Second seems
to have been more sensible to this sort of national satire than we might have expected in a
professed wit; a race, however, who are not the most patient in having their own sauce returned
to their lips. The king employed Evelyn to write a history of the Dutch war, and "enjoined
him to make it a little keen, for the Hollanders had very unhandsomely abused him in their
pictures, books, and libels." The Dutch continued their career of conveying their national
feeling on English affairs more triumphantly when their Stadtholder ascended an English throne.
The birth of the Pretender is represented by the chest which Minerva gave to the daughters
of Cecrops to keep, and which, opened, discovered an infant with a serpent's tail: Infantemque
vident apporrectumque draconem; the chest perhaps alluding to the removes of the warming-pan;
and, in another, James and a Jesuit flying in terror, the king throwing away a crown and sceptre,
and the Jesuit carrying a child; Ite missa est, the words applied from the mass.[101] But in
these contests of national feeling, while the grandeur of Louis the Fourteenth did not allow
of these ludicrous and satirical exhibitions, and while the political idolatry which his forty
Academicians paid to him exhausted itself in the splendid fictions of a series of famous medals,
amounting to nearly four hundred, it appears that we were not without our reprisals; for I
find Prosper Marchand, who writes as a Hollander, censuring his own country for having at length
adulated the grand monarque by a complimentary medal. He says--"The English cannot be reproached
with a similar debonaireté." After the famous victories of Marlborough, they indeed inserted
in a medal the head of the French monarch and the English queen, with this inscription, Ludovicus
Magnus, Anna Major. Long ere this one of our queens had been exhibited by ourselves with considerable
energy. On the defeat of the Armada, Elizabeth, Pinkerton tells us, struck a medal representing
the English and Spanish fleets, Hesperidum regem devicit virgo. Philip had medals dispersed
in England of the same impression, with this addition, Negatur. Est meretrix vulgi. These the
queen suppressed, but published another medal, with this legend:--

  Hesperidum regem devicit virgo; negatur,
  Est meretrix vulgi; res eo deterior.

An age fertile in satirical prints was the eventful æra of Charles the First: they were showered
from all parties, and a large collection of them would admit of a critical historical commentary,
which might become a vehicle of the most curious secret history. Most of them are in a bad
style, for they are allegorical; yet that these satirical exhibitions influenced the eyes and
minds of the people is evident from an extraordinary circumstance. Two grave collections of
historical documents adopted them. We are surprised to find prefixed to Rushworth's and Nalson's
historical collections two such political prints! Nalson's was an act of retributive justice;
but he seems to have been aware that satire in the shape of pictures is a language very attractive
to the multitude, for he has introduced a caricature print in the solemn folio of the Trial
of Charles the First.[102] Of the happiest of these political prints is one by Taylor the Water-poet,
not included in his folio, but prefixed to his "Mad Fashions, Odd Fashions, or the Emblems
of these Distracted Times." It is the figure of a man whose eyes have left their sockets, and
whose legs have usurped the place of his arms; a horse on his hind legs is drawing a cart;
a church is inverted; fish fly in the air; a candle burns with the flame downwards; and the
mouse and rabbit are pursuing the cat and the fox!

The animosities of national hatred have been a fertile source of these vehicles of popular
feeling--which discover themselves in severe or grotesque caricatures. The French and the Spaniards
mutually exhibit one another under the most extravagant figures. The political caricatures
of the French in the seventeenth century are numerous. The badauds of Paris amused themselves
for their losses by giving an emetic to a Spaniard, to make him render up all the towns his
victories had obtained: seven or eight Spaniards are seen seated around a large turnip, with
their frizzled mustachios, their hats en pot-à-beurre; their long rapiers, with their pummels
down to their feet, and their points up to their shoulders; their ruffs stiffened by many rows,
and pieces of garlick stuck in their girdles. The Dutch were exhibited in as great variety
as the uniformity of frogs would allow. We have largely participated in the vindictive spirit
which these grotesque emblems keep up among the people; they mark the secret feelings of national
pride. The Greeks despised foreigners, and considered them only as fit to be slaves;[103] the
ancient Jews, inflated with a false idea of their small territory, would be masters of the
world: the Italians placed a line of demarcation for genius and taste, and marked it by their
mountains. The Spaniards once imagined that the conferences of God with Moses on Mount Sinai
were in the Spanish language. If a Japanese become the friend of a foreigner, he is considered
as committing treason to his emperor, and rejected as a false brother in a country which, we
are told, is figuratively called Tenka, or the Kingdom under the Heavens. John Bullism is not
peculiar to Englishmen; and patriotism is a noble virtue when it secures our independence without
depriving us of our humanity.

The civil wars of the League in France, and those in England under Charles the First, bear
the most striking resemblance; and in examining the revolutionary scenes exhibited by the graver
in the famous Satire Ménippée, we discover the foreign artist revelling in the caricature of
his ludicrous and severe exhibition; and in that other revolutionary period of La Fronde, there
was a mania for political songs; the curious have formed them into collections; and we not
only have "the Rump Songs" of Charles the First's times, but have repeated this kind of evidence
of the public feeling at many subsequent periods.[104] Caricatures and political songs might
with us furnish a new sort of history; and perhaps would preserve some truths, and describe
some particular events not to be found in more grave authorities.

FOOTNOTES:

  [89] Baudelot de Dairval, de l'Utilité des Voyages, ii. 645. There
    is a work, by Ficoroni, on these lead coins or tickets. They are
    found in the cabinets of the curious medallist. Pinkerton, in
    referring to this entertaining work, regrets that "such curious
    remains have almost escaped the notice of medallists, and have not
    yet been arranged in one class, or named. A special work on them
    would be highly acceptable." The time has perhaps arrived when
    antiquaries may begin to be philosophers, and philosophers
    antiquaries! The unhappy separation of erudition from philosophy,
    and of philosophy from erudition, has hitherto thrown impediments in
    the progress of the human mind and the history of man.

  [90] Lect. Mem. i. ad. an. 1300.

  [91] Many specimens may be seen in Carter's curious volumes on
    "Ancient Architecture and Painting."

  [92] The series published during the wars in the Low Countries are
    the most remarkable, and may be seen in the volumes by Van Loon.

  [93] Mr. Douce possessed a portion of this very curious collection:
    for a complete one De Bure asked about twenty pounds.

  [94] The Roman satirists also invented a tale to ridicule what they
    dared not openly condemn, in which it was asserted that a play
    called The Marriage of the Pope was enacted before Cromwell, in
    which the Donna having obtained the key of Paradise from Innocent,
    insists on that of Purgatory also, that she may not be sent there
    when he is wearied of her. "The wedding" is then kept by a ball of
    monks and nuns, delighted to think they may one day marry also. Such
    was the means the Romans took to notify their sense of the
    degradation of the pope.

  [95] Warton's "Life of Sir Thomas Pope," p. 58.

  [96] This ancient caricature, so descriptive of the popular feelings,
    is tolerably given in Malcolm's history of "Caricaturing," plate ii.
    fig. 1.

  [97] This pack was probably executed in Holland in the time of
    Charles the Second. There are other sets of political cards of the
    same reign, particularly one connected with the so-called "popish
    plots," and the murder of Sir Edmundbury Godfrey. The South-Sea
    Bubble was made the subject of a similar pack, after it had
    exploded.

  [98] The royal house of Navarre was fancifully derived by the old
    heraldic writers from Hispalus, the son of Hercules; and the pageant
    provided by the citizens of Avignon to greet his entrance there in
    1600, was entirely composed in reference thereto, and Henry
    indicated in its title, L'Hercule Gaulois Triumphant.

  [99] He took for a device and motto on his shield on the occasion of
    tilting-matches and court festivities, a representation of the sun
    in splendour, and the words, Nec Pluribus Impar.

  [100] The history of this medal is useful in more than one respect;
    and may be found in Prosper Marchand.

  [101] Another represents the young prince holding the symbol of the
    Romish faith in his right hand, and crowning himself with the left;
    Truth opens a door below and discovers Father Petre, as the guiding
    influence of all.

  [102] It represents Cromwell as an armed monster, carrying the three
    kingdoms captive at his feet in a triumphal car driven by the devil
    over the body of liberty, and the decapitated Charles I. The state
    of the people is emblematized by a bird flying from its cage to be
    devoured by a hawk; and sheep breaking from the fold to be set on by
    ravening wolves.

  [103] A passage may be found in Aristotle's Politics, vol. i. c.
    3-7; where Aristotle advises Alexander to govern the Greeks like his
    subjects, and the barbarians like slaves; for that the one he
    was to consider as companions, and the other as creatures of an
    inferior race.

  [104] The following may be mentioned as the most important of these
    collections:--

    "Rome rhymed to Death." 1683.

    "A Collection of the newest and most ingenious Poems, Songs,
    Catches, &c, against Popery." 1689.

    "Poems on Affairs of State." 1703-7.

    "Whig and Tory; or, Wit on both sides." 1712.

    "Political Merriment; or, Truths told to some Tune." 1714.

AUTOGRAPHS.[105]

The art of judging of the characters of persons by their handwriting can only have any reality
when the pen, acting without restraint, becomes an instrument guided by, and indicative of,
the natural dispositions. But regulated as the pen is now too often by a mechanical process,
which the present race of writing-masters seem to have contrived for their own convenience,
a whole school exhibits a similar handwriting; the pupils are forced in their automatic motions,
as if acted on by the pressure of a steam-engine; a bevy of beauties will now write such fac-similes
of each other, that in a heap of letters presented to the most sharp-sighted lover to select
that of his mistress--though, like Bassanio among the caskets, his happiness should be risked
on the choice--he would despair of fixing on the right one, all appearing to have come from
the same rolling-press. Even brothers of different tempers have been taught by the same master
to give the same form to their letters, the same regularity to their line, and have made our
handwritings as monotonous as are our characters in the present habits of society. The true
physiognomy of writing will be lost among our rising generation: it is no longer a face that
we are looking on, but a beautiful mask of a single pattern; and the fashionable handwriting
of our young ladies is like the former tight-lacing of their mothers' youthful days, when every
one alike had what was supposed to be a fine shape!

Assuredly nature would prompt every individual to have a distinct sort of writing, as she has
given a peculiar countenance--a voice--and a manner. The flexibility of the muscles differs
with every individual, and the hand will follow the direction of the thoughts and the emotions
and the habits of the writers. The phlegmatic will portray his words, while the playful haste
of the volatile will scarcely sketch them; the slovenly will blot and efface and scrawl, while
the neat and orderly-minded will view themselves in the paper before their eyes. The merchant's
clerk will not write like the lawyer or the poet. Even nations are distinguished by their writing;
the vivacity and variableness of the Frenchman, and the delicacy and suppleness of the Italian,
are perceptibly distinct from the slowness and strength of pen discoverable in the phlegmatic
German, Dane, and Swede. When we are in grief, we do not write as we should in joy. The elegant
and correct mind, which has acquired the fortunate habit of a fixity of attention, will write
with scarcely an erasure on the page, as Fenelon, and Gray, and Gibbon; while we find in Pope's
manuscripts the perpetual struggles of correction, and the eager and rapid interlineations
struck off in heat. Lavater's notion of handwriting is by no means chimerical; nor was General
Paoli fanciful, when he told Mr. Northcote that he had decided on the character and dispositions
of a man from his letters, and the handwriting.

Long before the days of Lavater, Shenstone in one of his letters said, "I want to see Mrs.
Jago's handwriting, that I may judge of her temper." One great truth must however be conceded
to the opponents of the physiognomy of writing; general rules only can be laid down. Yet the
vital principle must be true that the handwriting bears an analogy to the character of the
writer, as all voluntary actions are characteristic of the individual. But many causes operate
to counteract or obstruct this result. I am intimately acquainted with the handwritings of
five of our great poets. The first in early life acquired among Scottish advocates a handwriting
which cannot be distinguished from that of his ordinary brothers; the second, educated in public
schools, where writing is shamefully neglected, composes his sublime or sportive verses in
a school-boy's ragged scrawl, as if he had never finished his tasks with the writing-master;
the third writes his highly-wrought poetry in the common hand of a merchant's clerk, from early
commercial avocations; the fourth has all that finished neatness which polishes his verses;
while the fifth is a specimen of a full mind, not in the habit of correction or alteration;
so that he appears to be printing down his thoughts, without a solitary erasure. The handwriting
of the first and third poets, not indicative of their character, we have accounted for; the
others are admirable specimens of characteristic autographs.[106]

Oldys, in one of his curious notes, was struck by the distinctness of character in the handwritings
of several of our kings. He observed nothing further than the mere fact, and did not extend
his idea to the art of judging of the natural character by the writing. Oldys has described
these handwritings with the utmost correctness, as I have often verified. I shall add a few
comments.

"Henry the Eighth wrote a strong hand, but as if he had seldom a good pen."--The vehemence
of his character conveyed itself into his writing; bold, hasty, and commanding, I have no doubt
the assertor of the Pope's supremacy and its triumphant destroyer split many a good quill.

"Edward the Sixth wrote a fair legible hand."--We have this promising young prince's diary,
written by his own hand; in all respects he was an assiduous pupil, and he had scarcely learnt
to write and to reign when we lost him.

"Queen Elizabeth writ an upright hand, like the bastard Italian." She was indeed a most elegant
caligrapher, whom Roger Ascham[107] had taught all the elegancies of the pen. The French editor
of the little autographical work I have noticed has given the autograph of her name, which
she usually wrote in a very large tall character, and painfully elaborate. He accompanies it
with one of the Scottish Mary, who at times wrote elegantly, though usually in uneven lines;
when in haste and distress of mind, in several letters during her imprisonment which I have
read, much the contrary. The French editor makes this observation: "Who could believe that
these writings are of the same epoch? The first denotes asperity and ostentation; the second
indicates simplicity, softness, and nobleness. The one is that of Elizabeth, queen of England;
the other that of her cousin, Mary Stuart. The difference of these two handwritings answers
most evidently to that of their characters."

"James the First writ a poor ungainly character, all awry, and not in a straight line." James
certainly wrote a slovenly scrawl, strongly indicative of that personal negligence which he
carried into all the little things of life; and Buchanan, who had made him an excellent scholar,
may receive the disgrace of his pupil's ugly scribble, which sprawls about his careless and
inelegant letters.

"Charles the First wrote a fair open Italian hand, and more correctly perhaps than any prince
we ever had." Charles was the first of our monarchs who intended to have domiciliated taste
in the kingdom, and it might have been conjectured from this unfortunate prince, who so finely
discriminated the manners of the different painters, which are in fact their handwritings,
that he would not have been insensible to the elegancies of the pen.

"Charles the Second wrote a little fair running hand, as if wrote in haste, or uneasy till
he had done." Such was the writing to have been expected from this illustrious vagabond, who
had much to write, often in odd situations, and could never get rid of his natural restlessness
and vivacity.

"James the Second writ a large fair hand." It is characterised by his phlegmatic temper, as
an exact detailer of occurrences, and the matter-of-business genius of the writer.

"Queen Anne wrote a fair round hand;" that is the writing she had been taught by her master,
probably without any alteration of manner naturally suggested by herself; the copying hand
of a common character.[108]

The subject of autographs associates itself with what has been dignified by its professors
as caligraphy, or the art of beautiful writing. As I have something curious to communicate
on that subject considered professionally, it shall form our following article.

FOOTNOTES:

  [105] A small volume which I met with at Paris, entitled "L'Art de
    juger du Caractère des Hommes sur leurs Ecritures," is curious for
    its illustrations, consisting of twenty-four plates, exhibiting
    fac-similes of the writing of eminent and other persons, correctly
    taken from the original autographs. Since this period both France
    and Germany have produced many books devoted to the use of the
    curious in autographs. In our own country J.T. Smith published a
    curious collection of fac-similes of letters, chiefly from literary
    characters.

  [106] It will be of interest to the reader to note the names of
    these poets in the consecutive order they are alluded to. They are
    Scott, Byron, Rogers, Moore, and Campbell.

  [107] He was also the tutor of Lady Jane Grey, and the author of one
    of our earliest and best works on education.

  [108] Since this article was written, Nichols has published a
    cleverly-executed series of autographs of royal, noble, and
    illustrious persons of Great Britain, in which the reader may study
    the accuracy of the criticism above given.

THE HISTORY OF WRITING-MASTERS.

There is a very apt letter from James the First to Prince Henry when very young, on the neatness
and fairness of his handwriting. The royal father suspecting that the prince's tutor, Mr.,
afterwards Sir Adam, Newton, had helped out the young prince in the composition, and that in
this specimen of caligraphy he had relied also on the pains of Mr. Peter Bales, the great writing-master,
for touching up his letters, his majesty shows a laudable anxiety that the prince should be
impressed with the higher importance of the one over the other. James shall himself speak.
"I confess I long to receive a letter from you that may be wholly yours, as well matter as
form; as well formed by your mind as drawn by your fingers; for ye may remember, that in my
book to you I warn you to beware with (of) that kind of wit that may fly out at the end of
your fingers; not that I commend not a fair handwriting; sed hoc facito, illud non omittito:
and the other is multo magis præcipuum." Prince Henry, indeed, wrote with that elegance which
he borrowed from his own mind; and in an age when such minute elegance was not universal among
the crowned heads of Europe. Henry IV., on receiving a letter from Prince Henry, immediately
opened it, a custom not usual with him, and comparing the writing with the signature, to decide
whether it were of one hand, Sir George Carew, observing the French King's hesitation, called
Mr. Douglas to testify to the fact; on which Henry the Great, admiring an art in which he had
little skill, and looking on the neat elegance of the writing before him, politely observed,
"I see that in writing fair, as in other things, the elder must yield to the younger."

Had this anecdote of neat writing reached the professors of caligraphy, who in this country
have put forth such painful panegyrics on the art, these royal names had unquestionably blazoned
their pages. Not indeed that these penmen require any fresh inflation; for never has there
been a race of professors in any art who have exceeded in solemnity and pretensions the practitioners
in this simple and mechanical craft. I must leave to more ingenious investigators of human
nature to reveal the occult cause which has operated such powerful delusions on these "Vive
la Plume!" men, who have been generally observed to possess least intellectual ability in proportion
to the excellence they have obtained in their own art. I suspect this maniacal vanity is peculiar
to the writing-masters of England; and I can only attribute the immense importance which they
have conceived of their art to the perfection to which they have carried the art of short-hand
writing; an art which was always better understood, and more skilfully practised, in England
than in any other country. It will surprise some when they learn that the artists in verse
and colours, poets and painters, have not raised loftier pretensions to the admiration of mankind.
Writing-masters, or caligraphers, have had their engraved "effigies," with a Fame in flourishes,
a pen in one hand and a trumpet in the other; and fine verses inscribed, and their very lives
written! They have compared

  The nimbly-turning of their silver quill

to the beautiful in art and the sublime in invention; nor is this wonderful, since they discover
the art of writing, like the invention of language, in a divine original; and from the tablets
of stone which the Deity himself delivered, they trace their German broad text, or their fine
running-hand. One, for "the bold striking of those words, Vive la Plume," was so sensible of
the reputation that this last piece of command of hand would give the book which he thus adorned,
and which his biographer acknowledges was the product of about a minute,--(but then how many
years of flourishing had that single minute cost him!)--that he claims the glory of an artist;
observing,--

                              We seldom find
  The man of business with the artist join'd.

Another was flattered that his writing could impart immortality to the most wretched compositions!--

  And any lines prove pleasing, when you write.

Sometimes the caligrapher is a sort of hero:--

  To you, you rare commander of the quill,
  Whose wit and worth, deep learning, and high skill,
  Speak you the honour of Great Tower Hill!

The last line became traditionally adopted by those who were so lucky as to live in the neighbourhood
of this Parnassus. But the reader must form some notion of that charm of caligraphy which has
so bewitched its professors, when,

  Soft, bold, and free, your manuscripts still please.

  How justly bold in SNELL'S improving hand
  The pen at once joins freedom with command!
  With softness strong, with ornaments not vain,
  Loose with proportion, and with neatness plain;
  Not swell'd, not full, complete in every part,
  And artful most, when not affecting art.

And these describe those pencilled knots and flourishes, "the angels, the men, the birds, and
the beasts," which, as one of them observed, he could

                        Command
  Even by the gentle motion of his hand,

all the speciosa miracula of caligraphy;

  Thy tender strokes, inimitably fine,
  Crown with perfection every flowing line;
  And to each grand performance add a grace,
  As curling hair adorns a beauteous face:
  In every page new fancies give delight,
  And sporting round the margin charm the sight.

One Massey, a writing-master, published in 1763, "The Origin and Progress of Letters." The
great singularity of this volume is "a new species of biography never attempted before in English."
This consists of the lives of "English Penmen," otherwise writing-masters! If some have foolishly
enough imagined that the sedentary lives of authors are void of interest from deficient incident
and interesting catastrophe, what must they think of the barren labours of those who, in the
degree they become eminent, to use their own style, in the art of "dish, dash, long-tail fly,"
the less they become interesting to the public; for what can the most skilful writing-master
do but wear away his life in leaning over his pupil's copy, or sometimes snatch a pen to decorate
the margin, though he cannot compose the page? Montaigne has a very original notion on writing-masters:
he says that some of those caligraphers who had obtained promotion by their excellence in the
art, afterwards affected to write carelessly, lest their promotion should be suspected to have
been owing to such an ordinary acquisition!

Massey is an enthusiast, fortunately for his subject. He considers that there are schools of
writing, as well as of painting or sculpture; and expatiates with the eye of fraternal feeling
on "a natural genius, a tender stroke, a grand performance, a bold striking freedom, and a
liveliness in the sprigged letters, and pencilled knots and flourishes;" while this Vasari
of writing-masters relates the controversies and the libels of many a rival pen-nibber. "George
Shelley, one of the most celebrated worthies who have made a shining figure in the commonwealth
of English caligraphy, born I suppose of obscure parents, because brought up in Christ's Hospital,
yet under the humble blue-coat he laid the foundation of his caligraphic excellence and lasting
fame, for he was elected writing-master to the hospital." Shelley published his "Natural Writing;"
but, alas! Snell, another blue-coat, transcended the other. He was a genius who would "bear
no brother near the throne."--"I have been informed that there were jealous heart-burnings,
if not bickerings, between him and Col. Ayres, another of our great reformers in the writing
commonweal, both eminent men, yet, like our most celebrated poets Pope and Addison, or, to
carry the comparison still higher, like Cæsar and Pompey, one could bear no superior, and the
other no equal." Indeed, the great Snell practised a little stratagem against Mr. Shelley,
for which, if writing-masters held courts-martial, this hero ought to have appeared before
his brothers. In one of his works he procured a number of friends to write letters, in which
Massey confesses "are some satyrical strokes upon Shelley," as if he had arrogated too much
to himself in his book of "Natural Writing." They find great fault with pencilled knots and
sprigged letters. Shelley, who was an advocate for ornaments in fine penmanship, which Snell
utterly rejected, had parodied a well-known line of Herbert's in favour of his favourite decorations:--

  A Knot may take him who from letters flies,
  And turn delight into an exercise.

These reflections created ill-blood, and even an open difference amongst several of the superior
artists in writing. The commanding genius of Snell had a more terrific contest when he published
his "Standard Rules," pretending to have demonstrated them as Euclid would. "This proved a
bone of contention, and occasioned a terrific quarrel between Mr. Snell and Mr. Clark. This
quarrel about 'Standard Rules' ran so high between them, that they could scarce forbear scurrilous
language therein, and a treatment of each other unbecoming gentlemen! Both sides in this dispute
had their abettors; and to say which had the most truth and reason, non nostrum est tantas
componere lites; perhaps both parties might be too fond of their own schemes. They should have
left them to people to choose which they liked best." A candid politician is our Massey, and
a philosophical historian too; for he winds up the whole story of this civil war by describing
its result, which happened as all such great controversies have ever closed. "Who now-a-days
takes those Standard Rules, either one or the other, for their guide in writing?" This is the
finest lesson ever offered to the furious heads of parties, and to all their men; let them
meditate on the nothingness of their "Standard Rules," by the fate of Mr. Snell.

It was to be expected, when once these writing-masters imagined that they were artists, that
they would be infected with those plague-spots of genius--envy, detraction, and all the jalousie
du métier. And such to this hour we find them! An extraordinary scene of this nature has long
been exhibited in my neighbourhood, where two doughty champions of the quill have been posting
up libels in their windows respecting the inventor of a new art of writing, the Carstairian,
or the Lewisian? When the great German philosopher asserted that he had discovered the method
of fluxions before Sir Isaac, and when the dispute grew so violent that even the calm Newton
sent a formal defiance in set terms, and got even George the Second to try to arbitrate (who
would rather have undertaken a campaign), the method of fluxions was no more cleared up than
the present affair between our two heroes of the quill.

A recent instance of one of these egregious caligraphers may be told of the late Tomkins. This
vainest of writing-masters dreamed through life that penmanship was one of the fine arts, and
that a writing-master should be seated with his peers in the Academy! He bequeathed to the
British Museum his opus magnum--a copy of Macklin's Bible, profusely embellished with the most
beautiful and varied decorations of his pen; and as he conceived that both the workman and
the work would alike be darling objects with posterity, he left something immortal with the
legacy, his fine bust, by Chantrey, unaccompanied by which they were not to receive the unparalleled
gift! When Tomkins applied to have his bust, our great sculptor abated the usual price, and,
courteously kind to the feelings of the man, said that he considered Tomkins as an artist!
It was the proudest day of the life of our writing-master!

But an eminent artist and wit now living, once looking on this fine bust of Tomkins, declared,
that "this man had died for want of a dinner!"--a fate, however, not so lamentable as it appeared!
Our penman had long felt that he stood degraded in the scale of genius by not being received
at the Academy, at least among the class of engravers; the next approach to academic honour
he conceived would be that of appearing as a guest at their annual dinner. These invitations
are as limited as they are select, and all the Academy persisted in considering Tomkins as
a writing-master! Many a year passed, every intrigue was practised, every remonstrance was
urged, every stratagem of courtesy was tried; but never ceasing to deplore the failure of his
hopes, it preyed on his spirits, and the luckless caligrapher went down to his grave--without
dining at the Academy! This authentic anecdote has been considered as "satire improperly directed"--by
some friend of Mr. Tomkins--but the criticism is much too grave! The foible of Mr. Tomkins
as a writing-master presents a striking illustration of the class of men here delineated. I
am a mere historian--and am only responsible for the veracity of this fact. That "Mr. Tomkins
lived in familiar intercourse with the Royal Academicians of his day, and was a frequent guest
at their private tables," and moreover was a most worthy man, I believe--but is it less true
that he was ridiculously mortified by being never invited to the Academic dinner, on account
of his caligraphy? He had some reason to consider that his art was of the exalted class to
which he aspired to raise it, when this friend concludes his eulogy of this writing-master
thus--"Mr. Tomkins, as an artist, stood foremost in his own profession, and his name will be
handed down to posterity with the Heroes and Statesmen, whose excellences his penmanship has
contributed to illustrate and to commemorate." I always give the Pour and the Contre!

Such men about such things have produced public contests, combats a l'outrance, where much
ink was spilled by the knights in a joust of goose-quills; these solemn trials have often occurred
in the history of writing-masters, which is enlivened by public defiances, proclamations, and
judicial trials by umpires! The prize was usually a golden pen of some value. One as late as
in the reign of Anne took place between Mr. German and Mr. More. German having courteously
insisted that Mr. More should set the copy, he thus set it, ingeniously quaint!

  As more, and MORE, our understanding clears,
  So more and more our ignorance appears.

The result of this pen-combat was really lamentable; they displayed such an equality of excellence
that the umpires refused to decide, till one of them espied that Mr. German had omitted the
tittle of an i! But Mr. More was evidently a man of genius, not only by his couplet, but in
his "Essay on the Invention of Writing," where occurs this noble passage: "Art with me is of
no party. A noble emulation I would cherish, while it proceeded neither from, nor to malevolence.
Bales had his Johnson, Norman his Mason, Ayres his Matlock and his Shelley; yet Art the while
was no sufferer. The busybody who officiously employs himself in creating misunderstandings
between artists, may be compared to a turn-stile, which stands in every man's way, yet hinders
nobody; and he is the slanderer who gives ear to the slander."[109]

Among these knights of the "Plume volante," whose chivalric exploits astounded the beholders,
must be distinguished Peter Bales in his joust with David Johnson. In this tilting-match the
guerdon of caligraphy was won by the greatest of caligraphers; its arms were assumed by the
victor, azure, a pen or; while the "golden pen," carried away in triumph, was painted with
a hand over the door of the caligrapher. The history of this renowned encounter was only traditionally
known, till with my own eyes I pondered on this whole trial of skill in the precious manuscript
of the champion himself; who, like Cæsar, not only knew how to win victories, but also to record
them. Peter Bales was a hero of such transcendent eminence, that his name has entered into
our history. Holinshed chronicles one of his curiosities of microscopic writing at a time when
the taste prevailed for admiring writing which no eye could read! In the compass of a silver
penny this caligrapher put more things than would fill several of these pages. He presented
Queen Elizabeth with the manuscript set in a ring of gold covered with a crystal; he had also
contrived a magnifying glass of such power, that, to her delight and wonder, her majesty read
the whole volume, which she held on her thumb-nail, and "commended the same to the lords of
the council and the ambassadors;" and frequently, as Peter often heard, did her majesty vouchsafe
to wear this caligraphic ring.[110]

"Some will think I labour on a cobweb"--modestly exclaimed Bales in his narrative, and his
present historian much fears for himself! The reader's gratitude will not be proportioned to
my pains, in condensing such copious pages into the size of a "silver penny," but without its
worth!

For a whole year had David Johnson affixed a challenge "To any one who should take exceptions
to this my writing and teaching." He was a young friend of Bales, daring and longing for an
encounter; yet Bales was magnanimously silent, till he discovered that he was "doing much less
in writing and teaching" since this public challenge was proclaimed! He then set up his counter-challenge,
and in one hour afterwards Johnson arrogantly accepted it, "in a most despiteful and disgraceful
manner." Bales's challenge was delivered "in good terms." "To all Englishmen and strangers."
It was to write for a gold pen of twenty pounds value in all kinds of hands, "best, straightest,
and fastest," and most kind of ways; "a full, a mean, a small, with line, and without line;
in a slow set hand, a mean facile hand, and a fast running hand;" and further, "to write truest
and speediest, most secretary and clerk-like, from a man's mouth, reading or pronouncing, either
English or Latin."

Young Johnson had the hardihood now of turning the tables on his great antagonist, accusing
the veteran Bales of arrogance. Such an absolute challenge, says he, was never witnessed by
man, "without exception of any in the world!" And a few days after meeting Bales, "of set purpose
to affront and disgrace him what he could, showed Bales a piece of writing of secretary's hand,
which he had very much laboured in fine abortive parchment,"[111] uttering to the challenger
these words: "Mr. Bales, give me one shilling out of your purse, and if within six months you
better, or equal this piece of writing, I will give you forty pounds for it." This legal deposit
of the shilling was made, and the challenger, or appellant, was thereby bound by law to the
performance.

The day before the trial a printed declaration was affixed throughout the city, taunting Bales's
"proud poverty," and his pecuniary motives, as "a thing ungentle, base, and mercenary, and
not answerable to the dignity of the golden pen!" Johnson declares he would maintain his challenge
for a thousand pounds more, but for the respondent's inability to perform a thousand groats.
Bales retorts on the libel; declares it as a sign of his rival's weakness, "yet who so bold
as blind Bayard, that hath not a word of Latin to cast at a dog, or say Bo! to a goose!"

On Michaelmas day, 1595, the trial opened before five judges: the appellant and the respondent
appeared at the appointed place, and an ancient gentleman was intrusted with "the golden pen."
In the first trial, for the manner of teaching scholars, after Johnson had taught his pupil
a fortnight, he would not bring him forward! This was awarded in favour of Bales.

The second, for secretary and clerk-like writing, dictating to them both in English and in
Latin, Bales performed best, being first done; written straightest without line, with true
orthography: the challenger himself confessing that he wanted the Latin tongue, and was no clerk!

The third and last trial for fair writing in sundry kinds of hands, the challenger prevailed
for the beauty and most "authentic proportion," and for the superior variety of the Roman hand.
In the court hand the respondent exceeded the appellant, and likewise in the set text; and
in bastard secretary was also somewhat perfecter.

At length Bales, perhaps perceiving an equilibrium in the judicial decision, to overwhelm his
antagonist presented what he distinguishes as his "masterpiece," composed of secretary and
Roman hand four ways varied, and offering the defendant to let pass all his previous advantages
if he could better this specimen of caligraphy! The challenger was silent! At this moment some
of the judges perceiving that the decision must go in favour of Bales, in consideration of
the youth of the challenger, lest he might be disgraced to the world, requested the other judges
not to pass judgment in public. Bales assures us, that he in vain remonstrated; for by these
means the winning of the golden pen might not be so famously spread as otherwise it would have
been. To Bales the prize was awarded. But our history has a more interesting close; the subtle
Machiavelism of the first challenger!

When the great trial had closed, and Bales, carrying off the golden pen, exultingly had it
painted and set up for his sign, the baffled challenger went about reporting that he had won
the golden pen, but that the defendant had obtained the same by "plots and shifts, and other
base and cunning practices." Bales vindicated his claim, and offered to show the world his
"masterpiece" which had acquired it. Johnson issued an "Appeal to all Impartial Penmen," which
he spread in great numbers through the city for ten days, a libel against the judges and the
victorious defendant! He declared that there had been a subtle combination with one of the
judges concerning the place of trial; which he expected to have been "before penmen," but not
before a multitude like a stage-play, and shouts and tumults, with which the challenger had
hitherto been unacquainted. The judges were intended to be twelve; but of the five, four were
the challenger's friends, honest gentlemen, but unskilled in judging of most hands; and he
offered again forty pounds to be allowed in six months to equal Bales's masterpiece. And he
closes his "appeal" by declaring that Bales had lost in several parts of the trial, neither
did the judges deny that Bales possessed himself of the golden pen by a trick! Before judgment
was awarded, alleging the sickness of his wife to be extreme, he desired she might have a sight
of the golden pen to comfort her! The ancient gentleman who was the holder, taking the defendant's
word, allowed the golden pen to be carried to the sick wife; and Bales immediately pawned it,
and afterwards, to make sure work, sold it at a great loss, so that when the judges met for
their definite sentence, nor pen nor pennyworth was to be had! The judges being ashamed of
their own conduct, were compelled to give such a verdict as suited the occasion.

Bales rejoins: he publishes to the universe the day and the hour when the judges brought the
golden pen to his house, and while he checks the insolence of this Bobadil, to show himself
no recreant, assumes the golden pen for his sign.

Such is the shortest history I could contrive of this chivalry of the pen; something mysteriously
clouds over the fate of the defendant; Bales's history, like Cæsar's, is but an ex-parte evidence.
Who can tell whether he has not slurred over his defeats, and only dwelt on his victories?

There is a strange phrase connected with the art of the caligrapher, which I think may be found
in most, if not in all modern languages, to write like an angel! Ladies have been frequently
compared with angels; they are beautiful as angels, and sing and dance like angels; but, however
intelligible these are, we do not so easily connect penmanship with the other celestial accomplishments.
This fanciful phrase, however, has a very human origin. Among those learned Greeks who emigrated
to Italy, and afterwards into France, in the reign of Francis I., was one Angelo Vergecio,
whose beautiful caligraphy excited the admiration of the learned. The French monarch had a
Greek fount cast, modelled by his writing. The learned Henry Stephens, who, like our Porson
for correctness and delicacy, was one of the most elegant writers of Greek, had learnt the
practice from our Angelo. His name became synonymous for beautiful writing, and gave birth
to the vulgar proverb or familiar phrase to write like an angel!

FOOTNOTES:

  [109] I have not met with More's book, and am obliged to transcribe
    this from the Biog. Brit.

  [110] Howes, in his Chronicle under date 1576, has thus narrated the
    story:--"A strange piece of work, and almost incredible, was brought
    to pass by an Englishman from within the city of London, and a clerk
    of the Chancery, named Peter Bales, who by his industry and practice
    of his pen contrived and writ, within the compass of a penny, the
    Lord's Prayer, the Creed, the Ten Commandments, a prayer to God, a
    prayer for the queen, his posy, his name, the day of the month, the
    year of our Lord, and the reign of the queen: and at Hampton Court
    he presented the same to the queen's majesty."

  [111] This was written in the reign of Elizabeth. Holyoke notices
    "virgin-perchment made of an abortive skin; membrana virgo."
    Peacham, on "Drawing," calls parchment simply an abortive.

THE ITALIAN HISTORIANS.

It is remarkable that the country which has long lost its political independence may be considered
as the true parent of modern history. The greater part of their historians have abstained from
the applause of their contemporaries, while they have not the less elaborately composed their
posthumous folios, consecrated solely to truth and posterity! The true principles of national
glory are opened by the grandeur of the minds of these assertors of political freedom. It was
their indignant spirit, seeking to console its injuries by confiding them to their secret manuscripts,
which raised up this singular phenomenon in the literary world.

Of the various causes which produced such a lofty race of patriots, one is prominent. The proud
recollections of their Roman fathers often troubled the dreams of the sons. The petty rival
republics, and the petty despotic principalities, which had started up from some great families,
who at first came forward as the protectors of the people from their exterior enemies or their
interior factions, at length settled into a corruption of power; a power which had been conferred
on them to preserve liberty itself! These factions often shook, by their jealousies, their
fears, and their hatreds, that divided land, which groaned whenever they witnessed the "Ultramontanes"
descending from their Alps and their Apennines. Petrarch, in a noble invective, warmed by Livy
and ancient Rome, impatiently beheld the French and the Germans passing the mounts. "Enemies,"
he cries, "so often conquered prepare to strike with swords which formerly served us to raise
our trophies: shall the mistress of the world bear chains forged by hands which she has so
often bound to their backs?" Machiavel, in his "Exhortations to Free Italy from the Barbarians,"
rouses his country against their changeable masters, the Germans, the French, and the Spaniards;
closing with the verse of Petrarch, that short shall be the battle for which virtue arms to
show the world--

                che l' antico valore
  Ne gl' Italici cuor non è ancor morto.

Nor has this sublime patriotism declined even in more recent times; I cannot resist from preserving
in this place a sonnet by Filicaja, which I could never read without participating in the agitation
of the writer for the ancient glory of his degenerated country! The energetic personification
of the close perhaps surpasses even his more celebrated sonnet, preserved in Lord Byron's notes
to the fourth canto of "Childe Harold."

  Dov' è ITALIA, il tuo braccio? e a che ti servi
    Tu dell' altrui? non è s' io scorgo il vero,
    Di chi t' offende il defensor men fero:
    Ambe nemici sono, ambo fur servi.
  Così dunque l' onor, così conservi
    Gli avanzi tu del glorioso Impero?
    Cosi al valor, cosi al valor primiero
    Che a te fede giurò, la fede osservi?
  Or va; repudia il valor prisco, e sposa
    L' ozio, e fra il sangue, i gemiti, e le strida
    Nel periglio maggior dormi e riposa!
  Dormi, Adultera vil! fin che omicida
    Spada ultrice ti svegli, e sonnacchiosa,
    E nuda in braccio al tuo fedel t'uccida!

  Oh, Italy! where is thine arm? What purpose serves
  So to be helped by others? Deem I right,
  Among offenders thy defender stands?
  Both are thy enemies--both were thy servants!
  Thus dost thou honour--thus dost thou preserve
  The mighty boundaries of the glorious empire?
  And thus to Valour, to thy pristine Valour
  That swore its faith to thee, thy faith thou keep'st?
  Go! and divorce thyself from thy old Valiance,
  And marry Idleness: and midst the blood,
  The heavy groans and cries of agony,
  In thy last danger sleep, and seek repose!
  Sleep, vile Adulteress! the homicidal sword
  Vengeful shall waken thee! and lull'd to slumber,
  While naked in thy minion's arms, shall strike!

Among the domestic contests of Italy the true principles of political freedom were developed;
and in that country we may find the origin of that PHILOSOPHICAL HISTORY which includes so
many important views and so many new results unknown to the ancients.

Machiavel seems to have been the first writer who discovered the secret of what may be called
comparative history. He it was who first sought in ancient history for the materials which
were to illustrate the events of his own times, by fixing on analogous facts, similar personages,
and parallel periods. This was enlarging the field of history, and opening a new combination
for philosophical speculation. His profound genius advanced still further; he not only explained
modern by ancient history, but he deduced those results or principles founded on this new sort
of evidence which guided him in forming his opinions. History had hitherto been, if we except
Tacitus, but a story well told; and by writers of limited capacity, the detail and number of
facts had too often been considered as the only valuable portion of history. An erudition of
facts is not the philosophy of history; an historian unskilful in the art of applying his facts
amasses impure ore, which he cannot strike into coin. The chancellor D'Aguesseau, in his instructions
to his son on the study of history, has admirably touched on this distinction. "Minds which
are purely historical mistake a fact for an argument; they are so accustomed to satisfy themselves
by repeating a great number of facts and enriching their memory, that they become incapable
of reasoning on principles. It often happens that the result of their knowledge breeds confusion
and universal indecision; for their facts, often contradictory, only raise up doubts. The superfluous
and the frivolous occupy the place of what is essential and solid, or at least so overload
and darken it that we must sail with them in a sea of trifles to get to firm land. Those who
only value the philosophical part of history fall into an opposite extreme; they judge of what
has been done by that which should be done; while the others always decide on what should be
done by that which has been: the first are the dupes of their reasoning, the second of the
facts which they mistake for reasoning. We should not separate two things which ought always
to go in concert, and mutually lend an aid, reason and example! Avoid equally the contempt
of some philosophers for the science of facts, and the distaste or the incapacity which those
who confine themselves to facts often contract for whatever depends on pure reasoning. True
and solid philosophy should direct us in the study of history, and the study of history should
give perfection to philosophy." Such was the enlightened opinion, as far back as at the beginning
of the seventeenth century, of the studious chancellor of France, before the more recent designation
of Philosophical History was so generally received, and so familiar on our title-pages.

From the moment that the Florentine secretary conceived the idea that the history of the Roman
people, opening such varied spectacles of human nature, served as a point of comparison to
which he might perpetually recur to try the analogous facts of other nations and the events
passing under his own eye, a new light broke out and ran through the vast extents of history.
The maturity of experience seemed to have been obtained by the historian in his solitary meditation.
Livy in the grandeur of Rome, and Tacitus in its fated decline, exhibited for Machiavel a moving
picture of his own republics--the march of destiny in all human governments! The text of Livy
and Tacitus revealed to him many an imperfect secret--the fuller truth he drew from the depth
of his own observations on his own times. In Machiavel's "Discourses on Livy" we may discover
the foundations of our Philosophical History.

The example of Machiavel, like that of all creative genius, influenced the character of his
age, and his history of Florence produced an emulative spirit among a new dynasty of historians.

The Italian historians have proved themselves to be an extraordinary race, for they devoted
their days to the composition of historical works which they were certain could not see the
light during their lives! They nobly determined that their works should be posthumous, rather
than be compelled to mutilate them for the press. These historians were rather the saints than
the martyrs of history; they did not always personally suffer for truth, but during their protracted
labour they sustained their spirit by anticipating their glorified after-state.

Among these Italian historians must be placed the illustrious Guicciardini, the friend of Machiavel.
No perfect edition of this historian existed till recent times. The history itself was posthumous;
nor did his nephew venture to publish it till twenty years after the historian's death. He
only gave the first sixteen books, and these castrated. The obnoxious passages consisted of
some statements relating to the papal court, then so important in the affairs of Europe; some
account of the origin and progress of the papal power; some eloquent pictures of the abuses
and disorders of that corrupt court; and some free caricatures on the government of Florence.
The precious fragments were fortunately preserved in manuscript, and the Protestants procured
transcripts which they published separately, but which were long very rare.[112] All the Italian
editions continued to be reprinted in the same truncated condition, and appear only to have
been reinstated in the immortal history so late as in 1775! Thus, it required two centuries
before an editor could venture to give the world the pure and complete text of the manuscript
of the lieutenant-general of the papal army, who had been so close and so indignant an observer
of the Roman cabinet.

Adriani, whom his son entitles gentiluomo Fiorentino, the writer of the pleasing dissertation
"on the Ancient Painters noticed by Pliny," prefixed to his friend Vasari's biographies, wrote
as a continuation of Guicciardini, a history of his own times in twenty-two books, of which
Denina gives the highest character for its moderate spirit, and from which De Thou has largely
drawn, and commends for its authenticity. Our author, however, did not venture to publish his
history during his lifetime: it was after his death that his son became the editor.

Nardi, of a noble family and high in office, famed for a translation of Livy which rivals its
original in the pleasure it affords, in his retirement from public affairs wrote a history
of Florence, which closes with the loss of the liberty of his country in 1531. It was not published
till fifty years after his death; even then the editors suppressed many passages which are
found in manuscript in the libraries of Florence and Venice, with other historical documents
of this noble and patriotic historian.

About the same time the senator Philip Nerli was writing his "Commentarj de' fatti civili,"
which had occurred in Florence. He gave them with his dying hand to his nephew, who presented
the MSS. to the Grand Duke; yet, although this work is rather an apology than a crimination
of the Medici family for their ambitious views and their overgrown power, probably some state-reason
interfered to prevent the publication, which did not take place till 150 years after the death
of the historian!

Bernardo Segni composed a history of Florence still more valuable, which shared the same fate
as that of Nerli. It was only after his death that his relatives accidentally discovered this
history of Florence, which the author had carefully concealed during his lifetime. He had abstained
from communicating to any one the existence of such a work while he lived, that he might not
be induced to check the freedom of his pen, nor compromise the cause and the interests of truth.
His heirs presented it to one of the Medici family, who threw it aside. Another copy had been
more carefully preserved, from which it was printed in 1713, about 150 years after it had been
written. It appears to have excited great curiosity, for Lenglet du Fresnoy observes that the
scarcity of this history is owing to the circumstance "of the Grand Duke having bought up the
copies." Du Fresnoy, indeed, has noticed more than once this sort of address of the Grand Duke;
for he observes on the Florentine history of Bruto that the work was not common, the Grand
Duke having bought up the copies to suppress them. The author was even obliged to fly from
Italy for having delivered his opinions too freely on the house of the Medici. This honest
historian thus expresses himself at the close of his work:--"My design has but one end--that
our posterity may learn by these notices the root and the causes of so many troubles which
we have suffered, while they expose the malignity of those men who have raised them up or prolonged
them, as well as the goodness of those who did all which they could to turn them away."

It was the same motive, the fear of offending the great personages or their families, of whom
these historians had so freely written, which deterred Benedetto Varchi from publishing his
well-known "Storie Fiorentine," which was not given to the world till 1721, a period which
appears to have roused the slumbers of the literary men of Italy to recur to their native historians.
Varchi, who wrote with so much zeal the history of his fatherland, is noticed by Nardi as one
who never took an active part in the events he records; never having combined with any party,
and living merely as a spectator. This historian closes the narrative of a horrid crime of
Peter Lewis Farnese with this admirable reflection: "I know well this story, with many others
which I have freely exposed, may hereafter prevent the reading of my history; but also I know,
that besides what Tacitus has said on this subject, the great duty of an historian is not to
be more careful of the reputation of persons than is suitable with truth, which is to be preferred
to all things, however detrimental it may be to the writer."[113]

Such was that free manner of thinking and of writing which prevailed in these Italian historians,
who, often living in the midst of the ruins of popular freedom, poured forth their injured
feelings in their secret pages; without the hope, and perhaps without the wish, of seeing them
published in their lifetime: a glorious example of self-denial and lofty patriotism!

Had it been inquired of these writers why they did not publish their histories, they might
have answered, in nearly the words of an ancient sage, "Because I am not permitted to write
as I would; and I would not write as I am permitted." We cannot imagine that these great men
were in the least insensible to the applause they denied themselves; they were not of tempers
to be turned aside; and it was the highest motive which can inspire an historian, a stern devotion
to truth, which reduced them to silence, but not to inactivity! These Florentine and Venetian
historians, ardent with truth, and profound in political sagacity, were writing these legacies
of history solely for their countrymen, hopeless of their gratitude! If a Frenchman[114] wrote
the English history, that labour was the aliment of his own glory; if Hume and Robertson devoted
their pens to history, the motive of the task was less glorious than their work; but here we
discover a race of historians, whose patriotism alone instigated their secret labour, and who
substituted for fame and fortune that mightier spirit, which, amidst their conflicting passions,
has developed the truest principles, and even the errors, of Political Freedom!

None of these historians, we have seen, published their works in their lifetime. I have called
them the saints of history, rather than the martyrs. One, however, had the intrepidity to risk
this awful responsibility, and he stands forth among the most illustrious and ill-fated examples
of HISTORICAL MARTYRDOM!

This great historian is Giannone, whose civil history of the kingdom of Naples is remarkable
for its profound inquiries concerning the civil and ecclesiastical constitution, the laws and
customs of that kingdom. With some interruptions from his professional avocations at the bar,
twenty years were consumed in writing this history. Researches on ecclesiastical usurpations,
and severe strictures on the clergy, are the chief subjects of his bold and unreserved pen.
These passages, curious, grave, and indignant, were afterwards extracted from the history by
Vernet, and published in a small volume, under the title of "Anecdotes Ecclésiastiques," 1738.
When Giannone consulted with a friend on the propriety of publishing his history, his critic,
in admiring the work, predicted the fate of the author. "You have," said he, "placed on your
head a crown of thorns, and of very sharp ones." The historian set at nought his own personal
repose, and in 1723 this elaborate history saw the light. From that moment the historian never
enjoyed a day of quiet! Rome attempted at first to extinguish the author with his work; all
the books were seized on; and copies of the first edition are of extreme rarity. To escape
the fangs of inquisitorial power, the historian of Naples flew from Naples on the publication
of his immortal work. The fugitive and excommunicated author sought an asylum at Vienna, where,
though he found no friend in the emperor, Prince Eugene and other nobles became his patrons.
Forced to quit Vienna, he retired to Venice, when a new persecution arose from the jealousy
of the state-inquisitors, who one night landed him on the borders of the pope's dominions.
Escaping unexpectedly with his life to Geneva, he was preparing a supplemental volume to his
celebrated history, when, enticed by a treacherous friend to a catholic village, Giannone was
arrested by an order of the King of Sardinia; his manuscripts were sent to Rome, and the historian
imprisoned in a fort. It is curious that the imprisoned Giannone wrote a vindication of the
rights of the King of Sardinia, against the claims of the court of Rome. This powerful appeal
to the feelings of this sovereign was at first favourably received; but, under the secret influence
of Rome, the Sardinian monarch, on the extraordinary plea that he kept Giannone as a prisoner
of state that he might preserve him from the papal power, ordered that the vindicator of his
rights should be more closely confined than before; and, for this purpose, transferred his
state-prisoner to the citadel of Turin, where, after twelve years of persecution and of agitation,
our great historian closed his life!

Such was the fate of this historical martyr, whose work the catholic Haym describes as opera
scritta con molto fuoco e troppa libertà. He hints that this history is only paralleled by
De Thou's great work. This Italian history will ever be ranked among the most philosophical.
But, profound as was the masculine genius of Giannone, such was his love of fame, that he wanted
the intrepidity requisite to deny himself the delight of giving his history to the world, though
some of his great predecessors had set him a noble and dignified example.

One more observation on these Italian historians. All of them represent man in his darkest
colours; their drama is terrific; the actors are monsters of perfidy, of inhumanity, and inventors
of crimes which seem to want a name! They were all "princes of darkness;" and the age seemed
to afford a triumph of Manicheism! The worst passions were called into play by all parties.
But if something is to be ascribed to the manners of the times, much more may be traced to
that science of politics, which sought for mastery in an undefinable struggle of ungovernable
political power; in the remorseless ambition of the despots, and the hatreds and jealousies
of the republics. These Italian historians have formed a perpetual satire on the contemptible
simulation and dissimulation, and the inexpiable crimes of that system of politics, which has
derived a name from one of themselves--the great, may we add, the calumniated, MACHIAVEL?

FOOTNOTES:

  [112] They were printed at Basle in 1569--at London in 1595--in
    Amsterdam, 1663. How many attempts to echo the voice of suppressed
    truth--Haym's Bib. Ital. 1803.

  [113] My friend, Mr. Merivale, whose critical research is only
    equalled by the elegance of his taste, has supplied me with a note
    which proves but too well that even writers who compose uninfluenced
    by party feelings, may not, however, be sufficiently scrupulous in
    weighing the evidence of the facts which they collect. Mr. Merivale
    observes, "The strange and improbable narrative with which Varchi
    has the misfortune of closing his history, should not have been even
    hinted at without adding, that it is denounced by other writers as a
    most impudent forgery, invented years after the occurrence is
    supposed to have happened, by the 'Apostate' bishop Petrus Paulus
    Vergerius." See its refutation in Amiani, "Hist. di Fano," ii. 149,
    et seq. 160.

    "Varchi's character as an historian cannot but suffer greatly from
    his having given it insertion on such authority. The responsibility
    of an author for the truth of what he relates should render us very
    cautious of giving credit to the writers of memoirs not intended to
    see the light till a distant period. The credibility of Vergerius,
    as an acknowledged libeller of Pope Paul III. and his family,
    appears still more conclusively from his article in Bayle, note K."
    It must be added, that the calumny of Vergerius may be found in
    Wolfius's Lect. Mem. ii. 691, in a tract de Idolo Lauretano,
    published 1556. Varchi is more particular in his details of this
    monstrous tale. Vergerius's libels, universally read at the time
    though they were collected afterwards, are now not to be met with,
    even in public libraries. Whether there was any truth in the story
    of Peter Lewis Farnese I know not; but crimes of as monstrous a dye
    occur in the authentic Guicciardini. The story is not yet forgotten,
    since in the last edition of Haym's Biblioteca Italiana, the best
    edition is marked as that which at p. 639 contains "la sceleratezza
    di Pier Lewis Farnese." I am of opinion that Varchi believed the
    story, by the solemnity of his proposition. Whatever be its truth,
    the historian's feeling was elevated and intrepid.

  [114] Rapin.

OF PALACES BUILT BY MINISTERS.

Our ministers and court favourites, as well as those on the Continent, practised a very impolitical
custom, and one likely to be repeated, although it has never failed to cast a popular odium
on their names, exciting even the envy of their equals--in the erection of palaces for themselves,
which outvied those of their sovereign; and which, to the eyes of the populace, appeared as
a perpetual and insolent exhibition of what they deemed the ill-earned wages of peculation,
oppression, and court-favour. We discover the seduction of this passion for ostentation, this
haughty sense of their power, and this self-idolatry, even among the most prudent and the wisest
of our ministers; and not one but lived to lament over this vain act of imprudence. To these
ministers the noble simplicity of Pitt will ever form an admirable contrast; while his personal
character, as a statesman, descends to posterity unstained by calumny.

The houses of Cardinal Wolsey appear to have exceeded the palaces of the sovereign in magnificence;
and potent as he was in all the pride of pomp, the "great cardinal" found rabid envy pursuing
him so close at his heels, that he relinquished one palace after the other, and gave up as
gifts to the monarch what, in all his overgrown greatness, he trembled to retain for himself.
The state satire of that day was often pointed at this very circumstance, as appears in Skelton's
"Why come ye not to Court?" and Roy's "Rede me, and be not wrothe."[115] Skelton's railing
rhymes leave their bitter teeth in his purple pride; and the style of both these satirists,
if we use our own orthography, shows how little the language of the common people has varied
during three centuries.

  Set up a wretch on high
  In a throne triumphantly;
  Make him a great state
  And he will play check-mate
  With royal majesty----
  The King's Court
  Should have the excellence,
  But Hampton Court
  Hath the pre-eminence;
  And Yorke Place[116]
  With my Lord's grace,
  To whose magnificence
  Is all the confluence,
  Suits, and supplications;
  Embassies of all nations.

Roy, in contemplating the palace, is maliciously reminded of the butcher's lad, and only gives
plain sense in plain words.

  Hath the Cardinal any gay mansion?
  Great palaces without comparison,
    Most glorious of outward sight,
  And within decked point-device,[117]
  More like unto a paradise
    Than an earthly habitation.
  He cometh then of some noble stock?
  His father could match a bullock,
    A butcher by his occupation.

Whatever we may now think of the structure, and the low apartments of Wolsey's PALACE, it is
described not only in his own times, but much later, as of unparalleled magnificence; and indeed
Cavendish's narrative of the Cardinal's entertainment of the French ambassadors gives an idea
of the ministerial prelate's imperial establishment very puzzling to the comprehension of a
modern inspector. Six hundred persons, I think, were banqueted and slept in an abode which
appears to us so mean, but which Stowe calls "so stately a palace." To avoid the odium of living
in this splendid edifice, Wolsey presented it to the king, who, in recompense, suffered the
Cardinal occasionally to inhabit this wonder of England, in the character of keeper of the
king's palace;[118] so that Wolsey only dared to live in his own palace by a subterfuge! This
perhaps was a tribute which ministerial haughtiness paid to popular feeling, or to the jealousy
of a royal master.

I have elsewhere shown the extraordinary elegance and prodigality of expenditure of Buckingham's
residences; they were such as to have extorted the wonder even of Bassompierre, and unquestionably
excited the indignation of those who lived in a poor court, while our gay and thoughtless minister
alone could indulge in the wanton profusion.

But Wolsey and Buckingham were ambitious and adventurous; they rose and shone the comets of
the political horizon of Europe. The Roman tiara still haunted the imagination of the Cardinal:
and the egotistic pride of having out-rivalled Richelieu and Olivarez, the nominal ministers
but the real sovereigns of Europe, kindled the buoyant spirits of the gay, the gallant, and
the splendid Villiers. But what "folly of the wise" must account for the conduct of the profound
Clarendon, and the sensible Sir Robert Walpole, who, like the other two ministers, equally
became the victims of this imprudent passion for the ostentatious pomp of a palace. This magnificence
looked like the vaunt of insolence in the eyes of the people, and covered the ministers with
a popular odium.

Clarendon House is now only to be viewed in a print; but its story remains to be told. It was
built on the site of Grafton-street; and when afterwards purchased by Monk, the Duke of Albemarle,
he left his title to that well-known street. It was an edifice of considerable extent and grandeur.
Clarendon reproaches himself in his Life for "his weakness and vanity" in the vast expense
incurred in this building, which he acknowledges had "more contributed to that gust of envy
that had so violently shaken him, than any misdemeanour that he was thought to have been guilty
of." It ruined his estate; but he had been encouraged to it by the royal grant of the land,
by that passion for building to which he owns "he was naturally too much inclined," and perhaps
by other circumstances, among which was the opportunity of purchasing the stones which had
been designed for the rebuilding of St. Paul's; but the envy it drew on him, and the excess
of the architect's proposed expense, had made his life "very uneasy, and near insupportable."
The truth is, that when this palace was finished, it was imputed to him as a state-crime; all
the evils in the nation, which were then numerous, pestilence, conflagration, war, and defeats,
were discovered to be in some way connected with Clarendon House, or, as it was popularly called,
either Dunkirk House, or Tangier Hall, from a notion that it had been erected with the golden
bribery which the chancellor had received for the sale of Dunkirk and Tangiers.[119] He was
reproached with having profaned the sacred stones dedicated to the use of the church. The great
but unfortunate master of this palace, who, from a private lawyer, had raised himself by alliance
even to royalty, the father-in-law of the Duke of York, it was maliciously suggested, had persuaded
Charles the Second to marry the Infanta of Portugal, knowing (but how Clarendon obtained the
knowledge his enemies have not revealed) that the Portuguese princess was not likely to raise
any obstacle to the inheritance of his own daughter to the throne. At the Restoration, among
other enemies, Clarendon found that the royalists were none of the least active; he was reproached
by them for preferring those who had been the cause of their late troubles. The same reproach
was incurred on the restoration of the Bourbons. It is perhaps more political to maintain active
men, who have obtained power, than to reinstate inferior talents, who at least have not their
popularity. This is one of the parallel cases which so frequently strike us in exploring political
history; and the ultras of Louis the Eighteenth were only the royalists of Charles the Second.
There was a strong popular delusion carried on by the wits and the Misses who formed the court
of Charles the Second, that the government was as much shared by the Hydes as the Stuarts.
We have in the state-poems, an unsparing lampoon, entitled "Clarendon's House-warming;" but
a satire yielding nothing to it in severity I have discovered in manuscript; and it is also
remarkable for turning chiefly on a pun of the family name of the Earl of Clarendon. The witty
and malicious rhymer, after making Charles the Second demand the Great Seal, and resolve to
be his own chancellor, proceeds, reflecting on the great political victim:

  Lo! his whole ambition already divides
  The sceptre between the Stuarts and the Hydes.
  Behold in the depth of our plague and wars,
  He built him a palace out-braves the stars;
  Which house (we Dunkirk, he Clarendon, names)
  Looks down with shame upon St. James;
  But 'tis not his golden globe that will save him,
  Being less than the custom-house farmers gave him;
  His chapel for consecration calls,
  Whose sacrilege plundered the stones from Paul's.
  When Queen Dido landed she bought as much ground
  As the Hyde of a lusty fat bull would surround;
  But when the said Hyde was cut into thongs,
  A city and kingdom to Hyde belongs;
  So here in court, church, and country, far and wide,
  Here's nought to be seen but Hyde! Hyde! Hyde!
  Of old, and where law the kingdom divides,
  'Twas our Hydes of land, 'tis now land of Hydes!

Clarendon House was a palace, which had been raised with at least as much fondness as pride;
and Evelyn tells us that the garden was planned by himself and his lordship; but the cost,
as usual, trebled the calculation, and the noble master grieved in silence amidst this splendid
pile of architecture.[120] Even when in his exile the sale was proposed to pay his debts, and
secure some provision for his younger children, he honestly tells us that "he remained so infatuated
with the delight he had enjoyed, that though he was deprived of it, he hearkened very unwillingly
to the advice." In 1683 Clarendon House met its fate, and was abandoned to the brokers, who
had purchased it for its materials. An affecting circumstance is recorded by Evelyn on this
occasion. In returning to town with the Earl of Clarendon, the son of the great earl, "in passing
by the glorious palace his father built but a few years before, which they were now demolishing,
being sold to certain undertakers,[121] I turned my head the contrary way till the coach was
gone past by, lest I might minister occasion of speaking of it, which must needs have grieved
him, that in so short a time this pomp was fallen." A feeling of infinite delicacy, so perfectly
characteristic of Evelyn!

And now to bring down this subject to times still nearer. We find that Sir Robert Walpole had
placed himself exactly in the situation of the great minister we have noticed; we have his
confession to his brother Lord Walpole, and to his friend Sir John Hynde Cotton. The historian
of this minister observes, that his magnificent building at Houghton drew on him great obloquy.
On seeing his brother's house at Wolterton, Sir Robert expressed his wishes that he had contented
himself with a similar structure. In the reign of Anne, Sir Robert, sitting by Sir John Hynde
Cotton, alluding to a sumptuous house which was then building by Harley, observed, that to
construct a great house was a high act of imprudence in any minister! It was a long time after,
when he had become prime minister, that he forgot the whole result of the present article,
and pulled down his family mansion at Houghton to build its magnificent edifice; it was then
Sir John Hynde Cotton reminded him of the reflection which he had made some years ago: the
reply of Sir Robert is remarkable--"Your recollection is too late; I wish you had reminded
me of it before I began building, for then it might have been of service to me!"

The statesman and politician then are susceptible of all the seduction of ostentation and the
pride of pomp! Who would have credited it? But bewildered with power, in the magnificence and
magnitude of the edifices which their colossal greatness inhabits, they seem to contemplate
on its image!

Sir Francis Walsingham died and left nothing to pay his debts, as appears by a curious fact
noticed in the anonymous life of Sir Philip Sidney prefixed to the Arcadia, and evidently written
by one acquainted with the family history of his friend and hero. The chivalric Sidney, though
sought after by court beauties, solicited the hand of the daughter of Walsingham, although,
as it appears, she could have had no other portion than her own virtues and her father's name.
"And herein," observes our anonymous biographer, "he was exemplary to all gentlemen not to
carry their love in their purses." On this he notices this secret history of Walsingham:

"This is that Sir Francis who impoverished himself to enrich the state, and indeed made England
his heir; and was so far from building up of fortune by the benefit of his place, that he demolished
that fine estate left him by his ancestors to purchase dear intelligence from all parts of
Christendom. He had a key to unlock the pope's cabinet; and, as if master of some invisible
whispering-place, all the secrets of Christian princes met at his closet. Wonder not then if
he bequeathed no great wealth to his daughter, being privately interred in the choir of Paul's,
as much indebted to his creditors though not so much as our nation is indebted to his memory."

Some curious inquirer may afford us a catalogue of great ministers of state who have voluntarily
declined the augmentation of their private fortune, while they devoted their days to the noble
pursuits of patriotic glory! The labour of this research will be great, and the volume small!

FOOTNOTES:

  [115] Skelton's satire is accessible to the reader in the Rev.
    Alexander Dyce's edition of the poet's works. Roy's poem was printed
    abroad about 1525, and is of extreme rarity, as the cardinal spared
    no labour and expense to purchase and destroy all the copies. A
    second edition was printed at Wesel in 1546. Its author, who had
    been a friar, was ultimately burned in Portugal for heresy.

  [116] The palace of Wolsey, as Archbishop of York, which he had
    furnished in the most sumptuous manner; after his disgrace it became
    a royal residence under the name of Whitehall.--Note in Dyce's ed.
    of Skelton's Works.

  [117] Point-device, a term explained by Mr. Douce. He thinks that
    it is borrowed from the labours of the needle, as we have
    point-lace, so point-device, i.e., point, a stitch, and
    devise, devised or invented; applied to describe anything
    uncommonly exact, or worked with the nicety and precision of
    stitches made or devised by the needle.--Illustrations of
    Shakspeare, i. 93. But Mr. Gifford has since observed that the
    origin of the expression is, perhaps, yet to be sought for: he
    derives it from a mathematical phrase, à point devisé, or a given
    point, and hence exact, correct, &c.--Ben Jonson, vol. iv. 170.
    See, for various examples, Mr. Nares's Glossary, art.
    Point-devise.

  [118] Lyson's "Environs," v. 58

  [119] Burnet says, "Others called it Holland House, because he was
    believed to be no friend to the war: so it was given out that he had
    money from the Dutch."

  [120] At the gateway of the Three Kings Inn, near Dover-street, in
    Piccadilly, are two pilasters with Corinthian capitals, which
    belonged to Clarendon House, and are perhaps the only remains of
    that edifice.

  [121] An old term for contractors. Evelyn tells us they were
    "certain rich bankers and mechanics, who gave for it, and the ground
    about it, 35,000l." They built streets and houses on the site to
    their great profit, the ground comprising twenty-four acres of land.

"TAXATION NO TYRANNY!"

Such was the title of a famous political tract, which was issued at a moment when a people,
in a state of insurrection, put forth a declaration that taxation was tyranny! It was not against
an insignificant tax they protested, but against taxation itself! and in the temper of the
moment this abstract proposition appeared an insolent paradox. It was instantly run down by
that everlasting party which, so far back as in the laws of our Henry the First, are designated
by the odd descriptive term of acephali, a people without heads![122] the strange equality
of levellers!

These political monsters in all times have had an association of ideas of taxation and tyranny,
and with them one name instantly suggests the other! This happened to one Gigli of Sienna,
who published the first part of a dictionary of the Tuscan language,[123] of which only 312
leaves amused the Florentines; these having had the honour of being consigned to the flames
by the hands of the hangman for certain popular errors; such as, for instance, under the word
Gran Duca we find Vedi Gabelli! (see Taxes!) and the word Gabella was explained by a reference
to Gran Duca! Grand-duke and taxes were synonymes, according to this mordacious lexicographer!
Such grievances, and the modes of expressing them, are equally ancient. A Roman consul, by
levying a tax on salt during the Punic war, was nicknamed Salinator, and condemned by "the
majesty" of the people! He had formerly done his duty to the country, but the salter was now
his reward! He retired from Rome, let his beard grow, and by his sordid dress and melancholy
air evinced his acute sensibility. The Romans at length wanted the salter to command the army--as
an injured man, he refused--but he was told that he should bear the caprice of the Roman people
with the tenderness of a son for the humours of a parent! He had lost his reputation by a productive
tax on salt, though this tax had provided an army and obtained a victory!

Certain it is that Gigli and his numerous adherents are wrong: for were they freed from all
restraints as much as if they slept in forests and not in houses; were they inhabitants of
wilds and not of cities, so that every man should be his own lawgiver, with a perpetual immunity
from all taxation, we could not necessarily infer their political happiness. There are nations
where taxation is hardly known, for the people exist in such utter wretchedness, that they
are too poor to be taxed; of which the Chinese, among others, exhibit remarkable instances.
When Nero would have abolished all taxes, in his excessive passion for popularity, the senate
thanked him for his good will to the people, but assured him that this was a certain means
not of repairing, but of ruining the commonwealth. Bodin, in his curious work "The Republic,"
has noticed a class of politicians who are in too great favour with the people. "Many seditious
citizens, and desirous of innovations, did of late years promise immunity of taxes and subsidies
to our people; but neither could they do it, or if they could have done it, they would not;
or if it were done, should we have any commonweal, being the ground and foundation of one."[124]

The undisguised and naked term of "taxation" is, however, so odious to the people, that it
may be curious to observe the arts practised by governments, and even by the people themselves,
to veil it under some mitigating term. In the first breaking out of the American troubles,
they probably would have yielded to the mother-country the right of taxation, modified by the
term regulation (of their trade); this I infer from a letter of Dr. Robertson, who observes,
that "the distinction between taxation and regulation is mere folly!" Even despotic governments
have condescended to disguise the contributions forcibly levied, by some appellative which
should partly conceal its real nature. Terms have often influenced circumstances, as names
do things; and conquest or oppression, which we may allow to be synonymes, apes benevolence
whenever it claims as a gift what it exacts as a tribute.

A sort of philosophical history of taxation appears in the narrative of Wood, in his "Inquiry
on Homer." He tells us that "the presents (a term of extensive signification in the East) which
are distributed annually by the bashaw of Damascus to the several Arab princes through whose
territory he conducts the caravan of pilgrims to Mecca, are, at Constantinople, called a free
gift, and considered as an act of the sultan's generosity towards his indigent subjects; while,
on the other hand, the Arab Sheikhs deny even a right of passage through the districts of their
command, and exact those sums as a tax due for the permission of going through their country.
In the frequent bloody contests which the adjustment of these fees produces, the Turks complain
of robbery, and the Arabs of invasion."[125]

Here we trace taxation through all its shifting forms, accommodating itself to the feelings
of the different people; the same principle regulated the alternate terms proposed by the buccaneers,
when they asked what the weaker party was sure to give, or when they levied what the others
paid only as a common toll.

When Louis the Eleventh of France beheld his country exhausted by the predatory wars of England,
he bought a peace of our Edward the Fourth by an annual sum of fifty thousand crowns, to be
paid at London, and likewise granted pensions to the English ministers. Holinshed and all our
historians call this a yearly tribute; but Comines, the French memoir-writer, with a national
spirit, denies that these gifts were either pensions or tributes. "Yet," says Bodin, a Frenchman
also, but affecting a more philosophical indifference, "it must be either the one or the other;
though I confess, that those who receive a pension to obtain peace, commonly boast of it as
if it were a tribute!"[126] Such are the shades of our feelings in this history of taxation
and tribute. But there is another artifice of applying soft names to hard things, by veiling
a tyrannical act by a term which presents no disagreeable idea to the imagination. When it
was formerly thought desirable, in the relaxation of morals which prevailed in Venice, to institute
the office of censor, three magistrates were elected bearing this title; but it seemed so harsh
and austere in that dissipated city, that these reformers of manners were compelled to change
their title; when they were no longer called censors, but I signori sopra il bon vivere della
città, all agreed on the propriety of the office under the softened term. Father Joseph, the
secret agent of Cardinal Richelieu, was the inventor of lettres de cachet, disguising that
instrument of despotism by the amusing term of a sealed letter. Expatriation would have been
merciful compared with the result of that billet-doux, a sealed letter from his majesty! The
interests of a great nation, among themselves, are often contrary to each other, and each seems
alternately to predominate and to decline. "The sting of taxation," observes Mr. Hallam, "is
wastefulness; but it is difficult to name a limit beyond which taxes will not be borne without
impatience when faithfully applied." In plainer words, this only signifies, we presume, that
Mr. Hallam's party would tax us without "wastefulness!" Ministerial or opposition, whatever
be the administration, it follows that "taxation is no tyranny;" Dr. Johnson then was terribly
abused in his day for a vox et præterea nihil!

Still shall the innocent word be hateful, and the people will turn even on their best friend,
who in administration inflicts a new impost; as we have shown by the fate of the Roman Salinator!
Among ourselves, our government, in its constitution, if not always in its practice, long had
a consideration towards the feelings of the people, and often contrived to hide the nature
of its exactions by a name of blandishment. An enormous grievance was long the office of purveyance.
A purveyor was an officer who was to furnish every sort of provision for the royal house, and
sometimes for great lords, during their progresses or journeys. His oppressive office, by arbitrarily
fixing the market prices, and compelling the countrymen to bring their articles to market,
would enter into the history of the arts of grinding the labouring class of society; a remnant
of feudal tyranny! The very title of this officer became odious; and by a statute of Edward
III. the hateful name of purveyor was ordered to be changed into acheteur or buyer![128] A
change of name, it was imagined, would conceal its nature! The term often devised, strangely
contrasted with the thing itself. Levies of money were long raised under the pathetic appeal
of benevolences. When Edward IV. was passing over to France, he obtained, under this gentle
demand, money towards "the great journey," and afterwards having "rode about the more part
of the lands, and used the people in such fair manner, that they were liberal in their gifts;"
old Fabian adds, "the which way of the levying of this money was after-named a benevolence."
Edward IV. was courteous in this newly-invented style, and was besides the handsomest tax-gatherer
in his kingdom! His royal presence was very dangerous to the purses of his loyal subjects,
particularly to those of the females. In his progress, having kissed a widow for having contributed
a larger sum than was expected from her estate, she was so overjoyed at the singular honour
and delight, that she doubled her benevolence, and a second kiss had ruined her! In the succeeding
reign of Richard III. the term had already lost the freshness of its innocence. In the speech
which the Duke of Buckingham delivered from the hustings in Guildhall, he explained the term
to the satisfaction of his auditors, who even then were as cross-humoured as the livery of
this day, in their notions of what now we gently call "supplies." "Under the plausible name
of benevolence, as it was held in the time of Edward IV., your goods were taken from you much
against your will, as if by that name was understood that every man should pay, not what he
pleased, but what the king would have him;" or, as a marginal note in Buck's Life of Richard
III. more pointedly has it, that "the name of benevolence signified that every man should pay,
not what he of his own good will list, but what the king of his good will list to take."[129]
Richard III., whose business, like that of all usurpers, was to be popular, in a statute even
condemns this "benevolence" as "a new imposition," and enacts that "none shall be charged with
it in future; many families having been ruined under these pretended gifts." His successor,
however, found means to levy "a benevolence;" but when Henry VIII. demanded one, the citizens
of London appealed to the act of Richard III. Cardinal Wolsey insisted that the law of a murderous
usurper should not be enforced. One of the common council courageously replied, that "King
Richard, conjointly with parliament, had enacted many good statutes." Even then the citizen
seems to have comprehended the spirit of our constitution--that taxes should not be raised
without the consent of parliament!

Charles the First, amidst his urgent wants, at first had hoped, by the pathetic appeal to benevolences,
that he should have touched the hearts of his unfriendly commoners; but the term of benevolence
proved unlucky. The resisters of taxation took full advantage of a significant meaning, which
had long been lost in the custom: asserting by this very term that all levies of money were
not compulsory, but the voluntary gifts of the people. In that political crisis, when in the
fulness of time all the national grievances which had hitherto been kept down started up with
one voice, the courteous term strangely contrasted with the rough demand. Lord Digby said "the
granting of subsidies, under so preposterous a name as of a benevolence, was a malevolence."
And Mr. Grimstone observed, that "they have granted a benevolence, but the nature of the thing
agrees not with the name." The nature indeed had so entirely changed from the name, that when
James I. had tried to warm the hearts of his "benevolent" people, he got "little money, and
lost a great deal of love." "Subsidies," that is grants made by parliament, observes Arthur
Wilson, a dispassionate historian, "get more of the people's money, but exactions enslave the
mind."

When benevolences had become a grievance, to diminish the odium they invented more inviting
phrases. The subject was cautiously informed that the sums demanded were only loans; or he
was honoured by a letter under the Privy Seal; a bond which the king engaged to repay at a
definite period; but privy seals at length got to be hawked about to persons coming out of
church. "Privy Seals," says a manuscript letter, "are flying thick and threefold in sight of
all the world, which might surely have been better performed in delivering them to every man
privately at home." The general loan, which in fact was a forced loan, was one of the most
crying grievances under Charles I. Ingenious in the destruction of his own popularity, the
king contrived a new mode of "secret instructions to commissioners."[130] They were to find
out persons who could bear the largest rates. How the commissioners were to acquire this secret
and inquisitorial knowledge appears in the bungling contrivance. It is one of their orders
that after a number of inquiries have been put to a person, concerning others who had spoken
against loan-money, and what arguments they had used, this person was to be charged in his
majesty's name, and upon his allegiance, not to disclose to any other the answer he had given.
A striking instance of that fatuity of the human mind, when a weak government is trying to
do what it knows not how to perform: it was seeking to obtain a secret purpose by the most
open and general means: a self-destroying principle!

Our ancestors were children in finance; their simplicity has been too often described as tyranny!
but from my soul do I believe, on this obscure subject of taxation, that old Burleigh's advice
to Elizabeth includes more than all the squabbling pamphlets of our political economists,--"WIN
HEARTS, AND YOU HAVE THEIR HANDS AND PURSES!"

FOOTNOTES:

  [122] Cowel's "Interpreter," art. Acephali. This by-name we
    unexpectedly find in a grave antiquarian law-dictionary! probably
    derived from Pliny's description of a people whom some travellers
    had reported to have found in this predicament, in their fright and
    haste in attempting to land on a hostile shore among savages. To
    account for this fabulous people, it has been conjectured they wore
    such high coverings, that their heads did not appear above their
    shoulders, while their eyes seemed to be placed in their breasts.
    How this name came to be introduced into the laws of Henry the First
    remains to be told by some profound antiquary; but the allusion was
    common in the middle ages. Cowel says, "Those are called acephali
    who were the levellers of that age, and acknowledged no head or
    superior."

  [123] Vocabulario di Santa Caterina e della Lingua Sanese, 1717.
    This pungent lexicon was prohibited at Rome by desire of the court
    of Florence. The history of this suppressed work may be found in Il
    Giornale de' Letterati d' Italia, tomo xxix. 1410. In the last
    edition of Haym's "Biblioteca Italiana," 1803, it is said to be
    reprinted at Manilla, nell' Isole Fillippine!--For the
    book-licensers it is a great way to go for it.

  [124] Bodin's "Six Books of a Commonwealth," translated by Richard
    Knolles, 1606. A work replete with the practical knowledge of
    politics, and of which Mr. Dugald Stewart has delivered a high
    opinion. Yet this great politician wrote a volume to anathematise
    those who doubted the existence of sorcerers and witches, &c., whom
    he condemns to the flames! See his "Demonomanie des Sorciers," 1593.

  [125] Wood's "Inquiry on Homer," p. 153.

  [126] Bodin's "Commonweal," translated by R. Knolles, p. 148. 1606.

  [127] Burke's Works, vol. i. 288.

  [128] The modern word cheater is traced by some authors to this
    term, which soon became odious to the populace.

  [129] Daines Barrington, in "Observations on the Statutes," gives
    the marginal note of Buck as the words of the duke; they
    certainly served his purpose to amuse, better than the veracious
    ones; but we expect from a grave antiquary inviolable authenticity.
    The duke is made by Barrington a sort of wit, but the pithy
    quaintness is Buck's.

  [130] These "Private Instructions to the Commissioners for the
    General Loan" may be found in Rushworth, i. 418.

THE BOOK OF DEATH.

Montaigne was fond of reading minute accounts of the deaths of remarkable persons; and, in
the simplicity of his heart, old Montaigne wished to be learned enough to form a collection
of these deaths, to observe "their words, their actions, and what sort of countenance they
put upon it." He seems to have been a little over curious about deaths, in reference, no doubt,
to his own, in which he was certainly deceived; for we are told that he did not die as he had
promised himself,--expiring in the adoration of the mass; or, as his preceptor Buchanan would
have called it, in "the act of rank idolatry."

I have been told of a privately printed volume, under the singular title of "The Book of Death,"
where an amateur has compiled the pious memorials of many of our eminent men in their last
moments: and it may form a companion-piece to the little volume on "Les grands hommes qui sont
morts en plaisantant." This work, I fear, must be monotonous; the deaths of the righteous must
resemble each other; the learned and the eloquent can only receive in silence that hope which
awaits "the covenant of the grave." But this volume will not establish any decisive principle,
since the just and the religious have not always encountered death with indifference, nor even
in a fit composure of mind.

The functions of the mind are connected with those of the body. On a death-bed a fortnight's
disease may reduce the firmest to a most wretched state; while, on the contrary, the soul struggles,
as it were in torture, in a robust frame. Nani, the Venetian historian, has curiously described
the death of Innocent the Tenth, who was a character unblemished by vices, and who died at
an advanced age, with too robust a constitution. Dopo lunga e terribile agonia, con dolore
e con pena, seperandosi l'anima da quel corpo robusto, egli spiro ai sette di Genuaro, nel
ottantesimo primo de suoi anno. "After a long and terrible agony, with great bodily pain and
difficulty, his soul separated itself from that robust frame, and expired in his eighty-first
year."

Some have composed sermons on death, while they passed many years of anxiety, approaching to
madness, in contemplating their own. The certainty of an immediate separation from all our
human sympathies may, even on a death-bed suddenly disorder the imagination. The great physician
of our times told me of a general, who had often faced the cannon's mouth, dropping down in
terror, when informed by him that his disease was rapid and fatal. Some have died of the strong
imagination of death. There is a print of a knight brought on the scaffold to suffer; he viewed
the headsman; he was blinded, and knelt down to receive the stroke. Having passed through the
whole ceremony of a criminal execution, accompanied by all its disgrace, it was ordered that
his life should be spared. Instead of the stroke from the sword, they poured cold water over
his neck. After this operation the knight remained motionless; they discovered that he had
expired in the very imagination of death! Such are among the many causes which may affect the
mind in the hour of its last trial. The habitual associations of the natural character are
most likely to prevail, though not always. The intrepid Marshal Biron disgraced his exit by
womanish tears and raging imbecility; the virtuous Erasmus, with miserable groans, was heard
crying out, Domine! Domine! fac finem! fac finem! Bayle having prepared his proof for the printer,
pointed to where it lay, when dying. The last words which Lord Chesterfield was heard to speak
were, when the valet, opening the curtains of the bed, announced Mr. Dayroles, "Give Dayroles
a chair!" "This good breeding," observed the late Dr. Warren, his physician, "only quits him
with his life." The last words of Nelson were, "Tell Collingwood to bring the fleet to an anchor."
The tranquil grandeur which cast a new majesty over Charles the First on the scaffold, appeared
when he declared, "I fear not death! Death is not terrible to me!" And the characteristic pleasantry
of Sir Thomas More exhilarated his last moments, when, observing the weakness of the scaffold,
he said, in mounting it, "I pray you, see me up safe, and for my coming down, let me shift
for myself!" Sir Walter Rawleigh passed a similar jest when going to the scaffold.[131]

My ingenious friend Dr. Sherwen has furnished me with the following anecdotes of death:--In
one of the bloody battles fought by the Duke d'Enghien, two French noblemen were left wounded
among the dead on the field of battle. One complained loudly of his pains; the other, after
long silence, thus offered him consolation: "My friend, whoever you are, remember that our
God died on the cross, our king on the scaffold; and if you have strength to look at him who
now speaks to you, you will see that both his legs are shot away."

At the murder of the Duke d'Enghien, the royal victim looking at the soldiers, who had pointed
their fusees, said, "Grenadiers! lower your arms, otherwise you will miss, or only wound me!"
To two of them who proposed to tie a handkerchief over his eyes, he said, "A loyal soldier
who has been so often exposed to fire and sword can see the approach of death with naked eyes
and without fear."

After a similar caution on the part of Sir George Lisle, or Sir Charles Lucas, when murdered
in nearly the same manner at Colchester, by the soldiers of Fairfax, the loyal hero, in answer
to their assertions and assurances that they would take care not to miss him, nobly replied,
"You have often missed me when I have been nearer to you in the field of battle."

When the governor of Cadiz, the Marquis de Solano, was murdered by the enraged and mistaken
citizens, to one of his murderers, who had run a pike through his back, he calmly turned round
and said, "Coward, to strike there! Come round--if you dare face--and destroy me!"

Abernethy, in his Physiological Lectures, has ingeniously observed that "Shakspeare has represented
Mercutio continuing to jest, though conscious that he was mortally wounded; the expiring Hotspur
thinking of nothing but honour; and the dying Falstaff still cracking his jests upon Bardolph's
nose. If such facts were duly attended to, they would prompt us to make a more liberal allowance
for each other's conduct, under certain circumstances, than we are accustomed to do." The truth
seems to be, that whenever the functions of the mind are not disturbed by "the nervous functions
of the digestive organs," the personal character predominates even in death, and its habitual
associations exist to its last moments. Many religious persons may have died without showing
in their last moments any of those exterior acts, or employing those fervent expressions, which
the collector of "The Book of Death" would only deign to chronicle; their hope is not gathered
in their last hour.

Yet many have delighted to taste of death long before they have died, and have placed before
their eyes all the furniture of mortality. The horrors of a charnel-house is the scene of their
pleasure. The "Midnight Meditations" of Quarles preceded Young's "Night Thoughts" by a century,
and both these poets loved preternatural terror.

  If I must die, I'll snatch at everything
    That may but mind me of my latest breath;
  DEATH'S-HEADS, GRAVES, KNELLS, BLACKS,[132] TOMBS, all these shall bring
    Into my soul such useful thoughts of death,
      That this sable king of fears
      Shall not catch me unawares.--QUARLES.

But it may be doubtful whether the thoughts of death are useful, whenever they put a man out
of the possession of his faculties. Young pursued the scheme of Quarles: he raised about him
an artificial emotion of death: he darkened his sepulchral study, placing a skull on his table
by lamp-light; as Dr. Donne had his portrait taken, first winding a sheet over his head and
closing his eyes; keeping this melancholy picture by his bed-side as long as he lived, to remind
him of his mortality[133]. Young, even in his garden, had his conceits of death: at the end
of an avenue was viewed a seat of an admirable chiaro-oscuro, which, when approached, presented
only a painted surface, with an inscription, alluding to the deception of the things of this
world. To be looking at "the mirror which flatters not;" to discover ourselves only as a skeleton
with the horrid life of corruption about us, has been among those penitential inventions, which
have often ended in shaking the innocent by the pangs which are only natural to the damned.[134]
Without adverting to those numerous testimonies, the diaries of fanatics, I shall offer a picture
of an accomplished and innocent lady, in a curious and unaffected transcript she has left of
a mind of great sensibility, where the preternatural terror of death might perhaps have hastened
the premature one she suffered.

From the "Reliquiæ Gethinianæ,"[135] I quote some of Lady Gethin's ideas on "Death."--"The
very thoughts of death disturb one's reason; and though a man may have many excellent qualities,
yet he may have the weakness of not commanding his sentiments. Nothing is worse for one's health
than to be in fear of death. There are some so wise as neither to hate nor fear it; but for
my part I have an aversion for it; and with reason; for it is a rash inconsiderate thing, that
always comes before it is looked for; always comes unseasonably, parts friends, ruins beauty,
laughs at youth, and draws a dark veil over all the pleasures of life.--This dreadful evil
is but the evil of a moment, and what we cannot by any means avoid; and it is that which makes
it so terrible to me; for were it uncertain, hope might diminish some part of the fear; but
when I think I must die, and that I may die every moment, and that too a thousand several ways,
I am in such a fright as you cannot imagine. I see dangers where, perhaps, there never were
any. I am persuaded 'tis happy to be somewhat dull of apprehension in this case; and yet the
best way to cure the pensiveness of the thoughts of death is to think of it as little as possible."
She proceeds by enumerating the terrors of the fearful, who "cannot enjoy themselves in the
pleasantest places, and although they are neither on sea, river, or creek, but in good health
in their chamber, yet are they so well instructed with the fear of dying, that they do not
measure it only by the present dangers that wait on us.--Then is it not best to submit to God?
But some people cannot do it as they would; and though they are not destitute of reason, but
perceive they are to blame, yet at the same time that their reason condemns them their imagination
makes their hearts feel what it pleases."

Such is the picture of an ingenious and a religious mind, drawn by an amiable woman, who, it
is evident, lived always in the fear of death. The Gothic skeleton was ever haunting her imagination.
In Dr. Johnson the same horror was suggested by the thoughts of death. The art of dying is
not of importance, it lasts so short a time!" But when Boswell persisted in the conversation,
Johnson was thrown into such a state of agitation, that he thundered out "Give us no more of
this!" and, further, sternly told the trembling and too curious philosopher, "Don't let us
meet to-morrow!"

It may be a question whether those who by their preparatory conduct have appeared to show the
greatest indifference for death, have not rather betrayed the most curious art to disguise
its terrors. Some have invented a mode of escaping from life in the midst of convivial enjoyment.
A mortuary preparation of this kind has been recorded of an amiable man, Moncriff, the author
of "Histoire des Chats" and "L'Art de Plaire," by his literary friend La Place, who was an
actor in, as well as the historian of, the singular narrative. One morning La Place received
a note from Moncriff, requesting that "he would immediately select for him a dozen volumes
most likely to amuse, and of a nature to withdraw the reader from being occupied by melancholy
thoughts." La Place was startled at the unusual request, and flew to his old friend, whom he
found deeply engaged in being measured for a new peruke, and a taffety robe-de-chambre, earnestly
enjoining the utmost expedition. "Shut the door!" said Moncriff, observing the surprise of
his friend. "And now that we are alone, I confide my secret: on rising this morning, my valet
in dressing me showed me on this leg this dark spot--from that moment I knew I was 'condemned
to death;' but I had presence of mind enough not to betray myself." "Can a head so well organised
as yours imagine that such a trifle is a sentence of death?"--"Don't speak so loud, my friend!
or rather deign to listen a moment. At my age it is fatal! The system from which I have derived
the felicity of a long life has been, that whenever any evil, moral or physical, happens to
us, if there is a remedy, all must be sacrificed to deliver us from it--but in a contrary case,
I do not choose to wrestle with destiny and to begin complaints, endless as useless! All that
I request of you, my friend, is to assist me to pass away the few days which remain for me,
free from all cares, of which otherwise they might be too susceptible. But do not think," he
added with warmth, "that I mean to elude the religious duties of a citizen, which so many of
late affect to contemn. The good and virtuous curate of my parish is coming here under the
pretext of an annual contribution, and I have even ordered my physician, on whose confidence
I can rely. Here is a list of ten or twelve persons, friends beloved! who are mostly known
to you. I shall write to them this evening, to tell them of my condemnation; but if they wish
me to live, they will do me the favour to assemble here at five in the evening, where they
may be certain of finding all those objects of amusement, which I shall study to discover suitable
to their tastes. And you, my old friend, with my doctor, are two on whom I most depend."

La Place was strongly affected by this appeal--neither Socrates, nor Cato, nor Seneca looked
more serenely on the approach of death.

"Familiarise yourself early with death!" said the good old man with a smile--"It is only dreadful
for those who dread it!"

During ten days after this singular conversation, the whole of Moncriff's remaining life, his
apartment was open to his friends, of whom several were ladies; all kinds of games were played
till nine o'clock; and that the sorrows of the host might not disturb his guests, he played
the chouette at his favourite game of picquet; a supper, seasoned by the wit of the master,
concluded at eleven. On the tenth night, in taking leave of his friend, Moncriff whispered
to him, "Adieu, my friend! to-morrow morning I shall return your books!" He died, as he foresaw,
the following day.

I have sometimes thought that we might form a history of this fear of death, by tracing the
first appearances of the SKELETON which haunts our funereal imagination. In the modern history
of mankind we might discover some very strong contrasts in the notion of death entertained
by men at various epochs. The following article will supply a sketch of this kind.

FOOTNOTES:

  [131] To these may be added Queen Anne Boleyn. Truly, this lady has much joy and pleasure in
    death."

  [132] Blacks was the term for mourning in James the First and
    Charles the First's time.

  [133] It was from this picture his stone effigy was constructed for
    his tomb in old St. Paul's. This mutilated figure, which withstood
    the great fire of London, is still preserved in the crypt of the
    present cathedral.

  [134] A still more curious fashion in this taste for mortuary
    memorials originated at the court of Henry II. of France; whose
    mistress, Diana of Poitiers, being a widow; mourning colours of
    black and white became the fashion at court. Watches in the form of
    skulls were worn; jewels and pendants in the shape of coffins; and
    rings decorated with skulls and skeletons.

  [135] My discovery of the nature of this rare volume, of what is
    original and what collected, will be found in volume ii. of this
    work.

HISTORY OF THE SKELETON OF DEATH.

Euthanasia! Euthanasia! an easy death! was the exclamation of Augustus; it was what Antoninus
Pius enjoyed; and it is that for which every wise man will pray, said Lord Orrery, when perhaps
he was contemplating the close of Swift's life.

The ancients contemplated DEATH without terror, and met it with indifference. It was the only
divinity to which they never sacrificed, convinced that no human being could turn aside its
stroke. They raised altars to Fever, to Misfortune, to all the evils of life; for these might
change! But though they did not court the presence of death in any shape, they acknowledged
its tranquillity; and in the beautiful fables of their allegorical religion, Death was the
daughter of Night, and the sister of Sleep; and ever the friend of the unhappy! To the eternal
sleep of death they dedicated their sepulchral monuments--Æternali somno![136] If the full
light of revelation had not yet broken on them, it can hardly be denied that they had some
glimpses and a dawn of the life to come, from the many allegorical inventions which describe
the transmigration of the soul. A butterfly on the extremity of an extinguished lamp, held
up by the messenger of the gods intently gazing above, implied a dedication of that soul; Love,
with a melancholy air, his legs crossed, leaning on an inverted torch, the flame thus naturally
extinguishing itself, elegantly denoted the cessation of human life; a rose sculptured on a
sarcophagus, or the emblems of epicurean life traced on it, in a skull wreathed by a chaplet
of flowers, such as they wore at their convivial meetings, a flask of wine, a patera, and the
small bones used as dice: all these symbols were indirect allusions to death, veiling its painful
recollections. They did not pollute their imagination with the contents of a charnel-house.
The sarcophagi of the ancients rather recall to us the remembrance of the activity of life;
for they are sculptured with battles or games, in basso relievo; a sort of tender homage paid
to the dead, observes Mad. de Staël, with her peculiar refinement of thinking.

It would seem that the Romans had even an aversion to mention death in express terms, for they
disguised its very name by some periphrasis, such as discessit e vita, "he has departed from
life;" and they did not say that their friend had died, but that he had lived; vixit! In the
old Latin chronicles, and even in the Foedera and other documents of the middle ages, we find
the same delicacy about using the fatal word Death, especially when applied to kings and great
people. "Transire à Sæculo--Vitam suam mutare--Si quid de eo humanitùs contigerit, &c." I am
indebted to Mr. Merivale for this remark. Even among a people less refined, the obtrusive idea
of death has been studiously avoided: we are told that when the Emperor of Morocco inquires
after any one who has recently died, it is against etiquette to mention the word "death;" the
answer is "his destiny is closed!" But this tenderness is only reserved for "the elect" of
the Mussulmen. A Jew's death is at once plainly expressed: "He is dead, sir! asking your pardon
for mentioning such a contemptible wretch!" i.e. a Jew! A Christian's is described by "The
infidel is dead!" or, "The cuckold is dead."

The ancient artists have so rarely attempted to personify Death, that we have not discovered
a single revolting image of this nature in all the works of antiquity.[137]--To conceal its
deformity to the eye, as well as to elude its suggestion to the mind, seems to have been an
universal feeling, and it accorded with a fundamental principle of ancient art; that of never
permitting violent passion to produce in its representation distortion of form. This may be
observed in the Laocoon, where the mouth only opens sufficiently to indicate the suppressed
agony of superior humanity, without expressing the loud cry of vulgar suffering. Pausanias
considered as a personification of death a female figure, whose teeth and nails, long and crooked,
were engraven on a coffin of cedar, which enclosed the body of Cypselus; this female was unquestionably
only one of the Parcæ, or the Fates, "watchful to cut the thread of life." Hesiod describes
Atropos indeed as having sharp teeth and long nails, waiting to tear and devour the dead; but
this image was of a barbarous era. Catullus ventured to personify the Sister Destinies as three
Crones; "but in general," Winkelmann observes, "they are portrayed as beautiful virgins, with
winged heads, one of whom is always in the attitude of writing on a scroll." Death was a nonentity
to the ancient artist. Could he exhibit what represents nothing? Could he animate into action
what lies in a state of eternal tranquillity? Elegant images of repose and tender sorrow were
all he could invent to indicate the state of death. Even the terms which different nations
have bestowed on a burial-place are not associated with emotions of horror. The Greeks called
a burying-ground by the soothing term of Coemeterion, or "the sleeping-place;" the Jews, who
had no horrors of the grave, by Beth-haim, or, "the house of the living;" the Germans, with
religious simplicity, "God's-field." The Scriptures had only noticed that celestial being "the
Angel of Death,"--graceful, solemn, and sacred!

Whence, then, originated that stalking skeleton, suggesting so many false and sepulchral ideas,
and which for us has so long served as the image of death?

When the Christian religion spread over Europe, the world changed! the certainty of a future
state of existence, by the artifices of wicked worldly men, terrified instead of consoling
human nature; and in the resurrection the ignorant multitude seemed rather to have dreaded
retribution, than to have hoped for remuneration. The Founder of Christianity everywhere breathes
the blessedness of social feelings. It is "Our Father!" whom he addresses. The horrors with
which Christianity was afterwards disguised arose in the corruptions of Christianity among
those insane ascetics who, misinterpreting "the Word of Life," trampled on nature; and imagined
that to secure an existence in the other world it was necessary not to exist in the one in
which God had placed them. The dominion of mankind fell into the usurping hands of those imperious
monks whose artifices trafficed with the terrors of ignorant and hypochondriac "Kaisers and
kings." The scene was darkened by penances and by pilgrimages, by midnight vigils, by miraculous
shrines, and bloody flagellations; spectres started up amidst their ténèbres; millions of masses
increased their supernatural influence. Amidst this general gloom of Europe, their troubled
imaginations were frequently predicting the end of the world. It was at this period that they
first beheld the grave yawn, and Death, in the Gothic form of a gaunt anatomy, parading through
the universe! The people were frightened as they viewed, everywhere hung before their eyes,
in the twilight of their cathedrals, and their "pale cloisters," the most revolting emblems
of death. They startled the traveller on the bridge; they stared on the sinner in the carvings
of his table and chair; the spectre moved in the hangings of the apartment; it stood in the
niche, and was the picture of their sitting-room; it was worn in their rings, while the illuminator
shaded the bony phantom in the margins of their "Horæ," their primers, and their breviaries.
Their barbarous taste perceived no absurdity in giving action to a heap of dry bones, which
could only keep together in a state of immovability and repose; nor that it was burlesquing
the awful idea of the resurrection, by exhibiting the incorruptible spirit under the unnatural
and ludicrous figure of mortality drawn out of the corruption of the grave.

An anecdote of these monkish times has been preserved by old Gerard Leigh; and as old stories
are best set off by old words, Gerard speaketh! "The great Maximilian the emperor came to a
monastery in High Almaine (Germany), the monks whereof had caused to be curiously painted the
charnel of a man, which they termed--Death! When that well-learned emperor had beholden it
awhile, he called unto him his painter, commanding to blot the skeleton out, and to paint therein
the image of--a fool. Wherewith the abbot, humbly beseeching him to the contrary, said 'It
was a good remembrance!'--'Nay,' quoth the emperor, 'as vermin that annoyeth man's body cometh
unlooked for, so doth death, which here is but a fained image, and life is a certain thing,
if we know to deserve it.'"[138] The original mind of Maximilian the Great is characterized
by this curious story of converting our emblem of death into a parti-coloured fool; and such
satirical allusions to the folly of those who persisted in their notion of the skeleton were
not unusual with the artists of those times; we find the figure of a fool sitting with some
drollery between the legs of one of these skeletons.[139]

This story is associated with an important fact. After they had successfully terrified the
people with their charnel-house figure, a reaction in the public feelings occurred, for the
skeleton was now employed as a medium to convey the most facetious, satirical, and burlesque
notions of human life. Death, which had so long harassed their imaginations, suddenly changed
into a theme fertile in coarse humour. The Italians were too long accustomed to the study of
the beautiful to allow their pencil to sport with deformity; but the Gothic taste of the German
artists, who could only copy their own homely nature, delighted to give human passions to the
hideous physiognomy of a noseless skull; to put an eye of mockery or malignity into its hollow
socket, and to stretch out the gaunt anatomy into the postures of a Hogarth; and that the ludicrous
might be carried to its extreme, this imaginary being, taken from the bone-house, was viewed
in the action of dancing! This blending of the grotesque with the most disgusting image of
mortality, is the more singular part of this history of the skeleton, and indeed of human nature
itself!

"The Dance of Death," erroneously considered as Holbein's, with other similar Dances, however
differently treated, have one common subject which was painted in the arcades of burying-grounds,
or on town-halls, and in market-places. The subject is usually "The Skeleton" in the act of
leading all ranks and conditions to the grave, personated after nature, and in the strict costume
of the times. This invention opened a new field for genius; and when we can for a moment forget
their luckless choice of their bony and bloodless hero, who to amuse us by a variety of action
becomes a sort of horrid Harlequin in these pantomimical scenes, we may be delighted by the
numerous human characters, which are so vividly presented to us. The origin of this extraordinary
invention is supposed to be a favourite pageant, or religious mummery, invented by the clergy,
who in these ages of barbarous Christianity always found it necessary to amuse, as well as
to frighten the populace; a circumstance well known to have occurred in so many other grotesque
and licentious festivals they allowed the people. The practice of dancing in churches and church-yards
was interdicted by several councils; but it was found convenient in those rude times. It seems
probable that the clergy contrived the present dance, as more decorous and not without moral
and religious emotions. This pageant was performed in churches, in which the chief characters
in society were supported in a sort of masquerade, mixing together in a general dance, in the
course of which every one in his turn vanished from the scene, to show how one after the other
died off. The subject was at once poetical and ethical; and the poets and painters of Germany
adopting the skeleton, sent forth this chimerical Ulysses of another world to roam among the
men and manners of their own. A popular poem was composed, said to be by one Macaber, which
name seems to be a corruption of St. Macaire; the old Gaulish version, reformed, is still printed
at Troyes, in France, with the ancient blocks of woodcuts, under the title of "La Grande Danse
Macabre des Hommes et des Femmes." Merian's "Todten Tanz," or the "Dance of the Dead," is a
curious set of prints of a Dance of Death from an ancient painting, I think not entirely defaced,
in a cemetery at Basle, in Switzerland. It was ordered to be painted by a council held there
during many years, to commemorate the mortality occasioned by a plague in 1439. The prevailing
character of all these works is unquestionably grotesque and ludicrous; not, however, that
genius, however barbarous, could refrain in this large subject of human life from inventing
scenes often imagined with great delicacy of conception, and even great pathos. Such is the
new-married couple, whom Death is leading, beating a drum; and in the rapture of the hour,
the bride seems, with a melancholy look, not insensible of his presence; or Death is seen issuing
from the cottage of the poor widow with her youngest child, who waves his hand sorrowfully,
while the mother and the sister vainly answer; or the old man, to whom Death is playing on
a psaltery, seems anxious that his withered fingers should once more touch the strings, while
he is carried off in calm tranquillity. The greater part of these subjects of death are, however,
ludicrous; and it may be a question, whether the spectators of these Dances of Death did not
find their mirth more excited than their religious emotions. Ignorant and terrified as the
people were at the view of the skeleton, even the grossest simplicity could not fail to laugh
at some of those domestic scenes and familiar persons drawn from among themselves. The skeleton,
skeleton as it is, in the creation of genius, gesticulates and mimics, while even its hideous
skull is made to express every diversified character, and the result is hard to describe; for
we are at once amused and disgusted with so much genius founded on so much barbarism.[140]

When the artist succeeded in conveying to the eye the most ludicrous notions of death, the
poets also discovered in it a fertile source of the burlesque. The curious collector is acquainted
with many volumes where the most extraordinary topics have been combined with this subject.
They made the body and the soul debate together, and ridicule the complaints of a damned soul!
The greater part of the poets of the time were always composing on the subject of Death in
their humorous pieces.[141] Such historical records of the public mind, historians, intent
on political events, have rarely noticed.

Of a work of this nature, a popular favourite was long the one entitled "Le faut mourir, et
les Excuses Inutiles qu'on apporte à cette Necessité; Le tout en vers burlesques, 1658." Jacques
Jacques, a canon of Ambrun, was the writer, who humorously says of himself that he gives his
thoughts just as they lie on his heart, without dissimulation--"For I have nothing double about
me except my name! I tell thee some of the most important truths in laughing; it is for thee
d'y penser tout à bon." This little volume was procured for me with some difficulty in France;
and it is considered as one of the happiest of this class of death-poems, of which I know not
of any in our literature.

Our canon of Ambrun, in facetious rhymes, and with the naïveté of expression which belongs
to his age, and an idiomatic turn fatal to a translator, excels in pleasantry; his haughty
hero condescends to hold very amusing dialogues with all classes of society, and delights to
confound their "excuses inutiles." The most miserable of men, the galley-slave, the mendicant,
alike would escape when he appears to them. "Were I not absolute over them," Death exclaims,
"they would confound me with their long speeches; but I have business, and must gallop on!"
His geographical rhymes are droll.

  Ce que j'ai fait dans l'Afrique
  Je le fais bien dans l'Amérique;
  On l'appelle monde nouveau
  Mais ce sont des brides à veau;
  Nulle terre à moy n'est nouvelle
  Je vay partout sans qu'on m'appelle;
  Mon bras de tout temps commanda
  Dans le pays du Canada;
  J'ai tenu de tout temps en bride
  La Virginie et la Floride,
  Et j'ai bien donné sur le bec
  Aux Français du fort de Kebec.
  Lorsque je veux je fais la nique
  Aux Incas, aux rois de Mexique;
  Et montre aux Nouveaux Grénadins
  Qu'ils sont des foux et des badins.
  Chacun sait bien comme je matte
  Ceux du Brésil et de la Plate,
  Ainsi que les Taupinembous--
  En un mot, je fais voir à tout
  Que ce que naît dans la nature,
  Doit prendre de moy tablature![142]

The perpetual employments of Death display copious invention with a facility of humour.

  Egalement je vay rangeant,
  Le conseiller et le serjent,
  Le gentilhomme et le berger,
  Le bourgeois et le boulanger,
  Et la maistresse et la servante
  Et la nièce comme la tante;
  Monsieur l'abbé, monsieur son moine,
  Le petit clerc et le chanoine;
  Sans choix je mets dans mon butin
  Maistre Claude, maistre Martin,
  Dame Luce, dame Perrete, &c.
  J'en prends un dans le temps qu'il pleure
  A quelque autre, au contraire à l'heure
  Qui démésurément il rit;
  Je donne le coup qui le frit.
  J'en prends un, pendant qu'il se lève;
  En se couchant l'autre j'enlève.
  Je prends le malade et le sain
  L'un aujourd'hui, l'autre le demain.
  J'en surprends un dedans son lit,
  L'autre à l'estude quand il lit.
  J'en surprends un le ventre plein
  Je mène l'autre par la faim.
  J'attrape l'un pendant qu'il prie,
  Et l'autre pendant qu'il renie;
  J'en saisis un au cabaret
  Entre le blanc et le clairet,
  L'autre qui dans son oratoire
  A son Dieu rend honneur et gloire:
  J'en surprends un lorsqu'il se psame
  Le jour qu'il èpouse sa femme,
  L'autre le jour que plein de deuil
  La sieune il voit dans le cercueil;
  Un à pied et l'autre à cheval,
  Dans le jeu l'un, et l'autre au bal;
  Un qui mange et l'autre qui boit,
  Un qui paye et l'autre qui doit,
  L'un en été lorsqu'il moissonne,
  L'autre eu vendanges dans l'automne,
  L'un criant almanachs nouveaux--
  Un qui demande son aumosne
  L'autre dans le temps qu'il la donne,
  Je prends le bon maistre Clément,
  Au temps qu'il prend un lavement,
  Et prends la dame Catherine
  Le jour qu'elle prend médecine.

This veil of gaiety in the old canon of Ambrun covers deeper and more philosophical thoughts
than the singular mode of treating so solemn a theme. He has introduced many scenes of human
life which still interest, and he addresses the "teste à triple couronne," as well as the "forçat
de galère," who exclaims, "Laissez-moi vivre dans mes fers," "le gueux," the "bourgeois," the
"chanoine," the "pauvre soldat," the "médecin;" in a word, all ranks in life are exhibited,
as in all the "Dances of Death." But our object in noticing these burlesque paintings and poems
is to show that after the monkish Goths had opened one general scene of melancholy and tribulation
over Europe, and given birth to that dismal skeleton of death, which still terrifies the imagination
of many, a reaction of feeling was experienced by the populace, who at length came to laugh
at the gloomy spectre which had so long terrified them!

FOOTNOTES:

  [136] Montfaucon, "L'Antiquité Expliquée," i. 362.

  [137] A representation of Death by a skeleton appears among the
    Egyptians: a custom more singular than barbarous prevailed, of
    enclosing a skeleton of beautiful workmanship in a small coffin,
    which the bearer carried round at their entertainments; observing,
    "After death you will resemble this figure: drink, then! and be
    happy." A symbol of Death in a convivial party was not designed to
    excite terrific or gloomy ideas, but a recollection of the brevity
    of human life.

  [138] "The Accidence of Armorie," p. 199.

  [139] A woodcut preserved in Mr. Dibdin's Bibliographical Decameron,
    i. 35.

  [140] My greatly-lamented friend, the late Mr. Douce, has poured
    forth the most curious knowledge on this singular subject, of "The
    Dance of Death." This learned investigator has reduced Macaber to
    a nonentity, but not "The Macaber Dance," which has been frequently
    painted. Mr. Douce's edition is accompanied by a set of woodcuts,
    which have not unsuccessfully copied the exquisite originals of the
    Lyons wood-cutter.

  [141] Goujet, "Bib. Françoise," vol. x. 185.

  [142] Tablature d'un luth, Cotgrave says, is the belly of a lute,
    meaning "all in nature must dance to my music!"

THE RIVAL BIOGRAPHERS OF HEYLIN.

Peter Heylin was one of the popular writers of his times, like Fuller and Howell, who, devoting
their amusing pens to subjects which deeply interested their own busy age, will not be slighted
by the curious.[143] We have nearly outlived their divinity, but not their politics. Metaphysical
absurdities are luxuriant weeds which must be cut down by the scythe of Time; but the great
passions branching from the tree of life are still "growing with our growth."

There are two biographies of our Heylin, which led to a literary quarrel of an extraordinary
nature; and, in the progress of its secret history, all the feelings of rival authorship were
called out.

Heylin died in 1662. Dr. Barnard, his son-in-law, and a scholar, communicated a sketch of the
author's life to be prefixed to a posthumous folio, of which Heylin's son was the editor. This
Life was given by the son, but anonymously, which may not have gratified the author, the son-in-law.[144]

Twenty years had elapsed when, in 1682, appeared "The Life of Dr. Peter Heylin, by George Vernon."
The writer, alluding to the prior Life prefixed to the posthumous folio, asserts that, in borrowing
something from Barnard, Barnard had also "Excerpted passages out of my papers, the very words
as well as matter, when he had them in his custody, as any reader may discern who will be at
the pains of comparing the Life now published with what is extant before the Keimalea Ecclesiastica;"
the quaint, pedantic title, after the fashion of the day, of the posthumous folio.

This strong accusation seemed countenanced by a dedication to the son and the nephew of Heylin.
Roused now into action, the indignant Barnard soon produced a more complete Life, to which
he prefixed "A necessary Vindication." This is an unsparing castigation of Vernon, the literary
pet whom the Heylins had fondled in preference to their learned relative.[145] The long-smothered
family grudge, the suppressed mortifications of literary pride, after the subterraneous grumblings
of twenty years, now burst out, and the volcanic particles flew about in caustic pleasantries
and sharp invectives; all the lava of an author's vengeance, mortified by the choice of an
inferior rival.

It appears that Vernon had been selected by the son of Heylin, in preference to his brother-in-law,
Dr. Barnard, from some family disagreement. Barnard tells us, in describing Vernon, that "No
man, except himself, who was totally ignorant of the doctor, and all the circumstances of his
life, would have engaged in such a work, which was never primarily laid out for him, but by
reason of some unhappy differences, as usually fall out in families; and he, who loves to put
his oar in troubled waters, instead of closing them up, hath made them wider."

Barnard tells his story plainly. Heylin the son, intending to have a more elaborate Life of
his father prefixed to his works, Dr. Barnard, from the high reverence in which he held the
memory of his father-in-law, offered to contribute it. Many conferences were held, and the
son entrusted him with several papers. But suddenly his caprice, more than his judgment, fancied
that George Vernon was worth John Barnard. The doctor affects to describe his rejection with
the most stoical indifference. He tells us--"I was satisfied, and did patiently expect the
coming forth of the work, not only term after term, but year after year--a very considerable
time for such a tract. But at last, instead of the Life, came a letter to me from a bookseller
in London, who lived at the sign of the Black Boy, in Fleet-street."[146]

Now, it seems that he who lived at the Black Boy had combined with another who lived at the
Fleur de Luce, and that the Fleur de Luce had assured the Black Boy that Dr. Barnard was concerned
in writing the Life of Heylin--this was a strong recommendation. But lo! it appeared that "one
Mr. Vernon, of Gloucester," was to be the man! a gentle, thin-skinned authorling, who bleated
like a lamb, and was so fearful to trip out of its shelter, that it allows the Black Boy and
the Fleur de Luce to communicate its papers to any one they choose, and erase or add at their
pleasure.[147]

It occurred to the Black Boy, on this proposed arithmetical criticism, that the work required
addition, subtraction, and division; that the fittest critic, on whose name, indeed, he had
originally engaged in the work, was our Dr. Barnard; and he sent the package to the doctor,
who resided near Lincoln.

The doctor, it appears, had no appetite for a dish dressed by another, while he himself was
in the very act of the cookery; and it was suffered to lie cold for three weeks at the carrier's.

But entreated and overcome, the good doctor at length sent to the carrier's for the life of
his father-in-law. "I found it, according to the bookseller's description, most lame and imperfect;
ill begun, worse carried on, and abruptly concluded." The learned doctor exercised that plenitude
of power with which the Black Boy had invested him--he very obligingly showed the author in
what a confused state his materials lay together, and how to put them in order--

  Nec facundia deseret hunc, nec lucidus ordo.

If his rejections were copious, to show his good-will as well as his severity, his additions
were generous, though he used the precaution of carefully distinguishing by "distinct paragraphs"
his own insertions amidst Vernon's mass, with a gentle hint that "He knew more of Heylin than
any man now living, and ought therefore to have been the biographer." He returned the MS. to
the gentleman with great civility, but none he received back! When Vernon pretended to ask
for improvements, he did not imagine that the work was to be improved by being nearly destroyed;
and when he asked for correction, he probably expected all might end in a compliment.

The narrative may now proceed in Dr. Barnard's details of his doleful mortifications, in being
"altered and mangled" by Mr. Vernon.

"Instead of thanks from him (Vernon), and the return of common civility, he disfigured my papers,
that no sooner came into his hands, but he fell upon them as a lion rampant, or the cat upon
the poor cock in the fable, saying, Tu hodie mihi discerperis--so my papers came home miserably
clawed, blotted, and blurred; whole sentences dismembered, and pages scratched out; several
leaves omitted which ought to be printed,--shamefully he used my copy; so that before it was
carried to the press, he swooped away the second part of the Life wholly from it--in the room
of which he shuffled in a preposterous conclusion at the last page, which he printed in a different
character, yet could not keep himself honest, as the poet saith,

  Dicitque tua pagina, fur es.
     MARTIAL.

For he took out of my copy Dr. Heylin's dream, his sickness, his last words before his death,
and left out the burning of his surplice. He so mangled and metamorphosed the whole Life I
composed, that I may say as Sosia did, Egomet mihi non credo, ille alter Sosia me malis mulcavit
modis--PLAUT."

Dr. Barnard would have "patiently endured these wrongs;" but the accusation Vernon ventured
on, that Barnard was the plagiary, required the doctor "to return the poisoned chalice to his
own lips," that "himself was the plagiary both of words and matter." The fact is, that this
reciprocal accusation was owing to Barnard having had a prior perusal of Heylin's papers, which
afterwards came into the hands of Vernon: they both drew their water from the same source.
These papers Heylin himself had left for "a rule to guide the writer of his life."

Barnard keenly retorts on Vernon for his surreptitious use of whole pages from Heylin's works,
which he has appropriated to himself without any marks of quotation. "I am no such excerptor
(as he calls me); he is of the humour of the man who took all the ships in the Attic haven
for his own, and yet was himself not master of any one vessel."

Again:--

"But all this while I misunderstand him, for possibly he meaneth his own dear words I have
excerpted. Why doth he not speak in plain, downright English, that the world may see my faults?
For every one doth not know what is excerpting. If I have been so bold to pick or snap a word
from him, I hope I may have the benefit of the clergy. What words have I robbed him of?--and
how have I become the richer for them? I was never so taken with him as to be once tempted
to break the commandments, because I love plain speaking, plain writing, and plain dealing,
which he does not: I hate the word excerpted, and the action imported in it. However, he is
a fanciful man, and thinks there is no elegancy nor wit but in his own way of talking. I must
say as Tully did, Malim equidem indisertam prudentiam quam stultam loquacitatem."

In his turn he accuses Vernon of being a perpetual transcriber, and for the Malone minuteness
of his history.

"But how have I excerpted his matter? Then I am sure to rob the spittle-house; for he is so
poor and put to hard shifts, that he has much ado to compose a tolerable story, which he hath
been hammering and conceiving in his mind for four years together, before he could bring forth
his foetus of intolerable transcriptions to molest the reader's patience and memory. How doth
he run himself out of breath, sometimes for twenty pages and more, at other times fifteen,
ordinarily nine and ten, collected out of Dr. Heylin's old books, before he can take his wind
again to return to his story! I never met with such a transcriber in all my days; for want
of matter to fill up a vacuum, of which his book was in much danger, he hath set down the story
of Westminster, as long as the Ploughman's Tale in Chaucer, which to the reader would have
been more pertinent and pleasant. I wonder he did not transcribe bills of Chancery, especially
about a tedious suit my father had for several years about a lease at Norton."

In his raillery of Vernon's affected metaphors and comparisons, "his similitudes and dissimilitudes
strangely hooked in, and fetched as far as the Antipodes," Barnard observes, "The man hath
also a strange opinion of himself that he is Dr. Heylin; and because he writes his Life, that
he hath his natural parts, if not acquired. The soul of St. Augustin (say the schools) was
Pythagorically transfused into the corpse of Aquinas; so the soul of Dr. Heylin into a narrow
soul. I know there is a question in philosophy, An animæ sint oequales?--whether souls be alike?
But there's a difference between the spirits of Elijah and Elisha: so small a prophet with
so great a one!"

Dr. Barnard concludes by regretting that good counsel came now unseasonably, else he would
have advised the writer to have transmitted his task to one who had been an ancient friend
of Dr. Heylin, rather than ambitiously have assumed it, who was a professed stranger to him,
by reason of which no better account could be expected from him than what he has given. He
hits off the character of this piece of biography--"A Life to the half; an imperfect creature,
that is not only lame (as the honest bookseller said), but wanteth legs, and all other integral
parts of a man; nay, the very soul that should animate a body like Dr. Heylin. So that I must
say of him, as Plutarch does of Tib. Gracchus, 'that he is a bold undertaker and rash talker
of those matters he does not understand.' And so I have done with him, unless he creates to
himself and me a future trouble!"

Vernon appears to have slunk away from the duel. The son of Heylin stood corrected by the superior
Life produced by their relative; the learned and vivacious Barnard probably never again ventured
to alter and improve the works of an author kneeling and praying for corrections. These bleating
lambs, it seems, often turn out roaring lions![148]

FOOTNOTES:

  [143] Dr. Heylin's principal work, "Ecclesia Restaurata; or, the
    History of the Reformation of the Church of England," was reprinted
    at the Cambridge University press, for "the Ecclesiastical History
    Society," in 2 vols. 8vo, 1849, under the able editorship of J. C.
    Robertson, M.A., Vicar of Bekesbourne, Kent. The introductory
    account of Heylin has enabled us to correct the present article in
    some particulars, and add a few useful notes.

  [144] Dr. John Barnard married the daughter of Heylin, when he lived
    at Abingdon, near Oxford. He afterwards became rector of the rich
    living of Waddington, near Lincoln, of which he purchased the
    perpetual advowson, holding also the sinecure of Gedney, in the same
    county. He was ultimately made Prebendary of Asgarby, in the church
    of Lincoln, and died at Newark, on a journey, in August, 1683. His
    rich and indolent life would naturally hold out few inducements for
    literary labour.

  [145] Mr. George Vernon, according to Wood (Athen. Oxon. iv. 606),
    was made Chaplain of All Souls' College, afterwards Rector of
    Sarsden, near Churchill, in Oxfordshire, of Bourton-on-the-Water, in
    Gloucestershire, and of St. John and St. Michael, in the city of
    Gloucester. Wood enumerates several works by him, so that he was
    evidently more of a "literary man" than Barnard, who enjoyed
    "learned ease" to a great degree, and was evidently only to be
    aroused by something flagitious.

  [146] This was Harper, a bookseller, who had undertaken a
    republication of the Ecclesia Vindicata, and other tracts by
    Heylin, to which the Life was to be prefixed.

  [147] The author had "desired Mr. Harper to communicate the papers
    to whom he pleases, and cross out or add what is thought
    convenient." A leave very few literary men would give!

  [148] The most curious part of the story remains yet to be told. Dr.
    Barnard was mistaken in his imputations, and Vernon was not the
    really blamable party. We tell the tale in Mr. Robertson's words in
    the work already alluded to.--"Who was the party guilty of these
    outrages? Barnard assumed that it could be no other than Vernon; but
    the truth seems to be that the Rector of Bourton had nothing
    whatever to do with the matter. The publisher had called in a more
    important adviser--Dr. Barlow, Bishop of Lincoln (Ath. Oxon. iii.
    567; iv. 606); the mutilations of Barnard's MS. were really the
    work, not of the obscure Gloucestershire clergyman, but of the
    indignant author's own diocesan; and we need not hesitate to ascribe
    the abruptness of the conclusion, and the smallness of the type in
    which it is printed, to Mr. Harper's economical desire to save the
    expense of an additional sheet." Thus "Bishop Barlow and the
    bookseller had made the mischief between the parties, who, instead
    of attempting a private explanation, attacked each other in print."

OF LENGLET DU FRESNOY.

The "Méthode pour étudier l' Histoire," by the Abbé Lenglet du Fresnoy, is a master-key to
all the locked-up treasures of ancient and modern history, and to the more secret stores of
the obscurer memorialists of every nation. The history of this work and its author are equally
remarkable. The man was a sort of curiosity in human nature, as his works are in literature.
Lenglet du Fresnoy is not a writer merely laborious; without genius, he still has a hardy originality
in his manner of writing and of thinking; and his vast and restless curiosity fermenting his
immense book-knowledge, with a freedom verging on cynical causticity, led to the pursuit of
uncommon topics. Even the prefaces to the works which he edited are singularly curious, and
he has usually added bibliothèques, or critical catalogues of authors, which we may still consult
for notices on the writers of romances--of those on literary subjects--on alchymy, or the hermetic
philosophy; of those who have written on apparitions, visions, &c.; an historical treatise
on the secret of confession, &c.; besides those "Pièces Justificatives," which constitute some
of the most extraordinary documents in the philosophy of history. His manner of writing secured
him readers even among the unlearned; his mordacity, his sarcasm, his derision, his pregnant
interjections, his unguarded frankness, and often his strange opinions, contribute to his reader's
amusement more than comports with his graver tasks; but his peculiarities cannot alter the
value of his knowledge, whatever they may sometimes detract from his opinions; and we may safely
admire the ingenuity, without quarrelling with the sincerity of the writer, who having composed
a work on L'Usage des Romans, in which he gaily impugned the authenticity of all history, to
prove himself not to have been the author, ambidexterously published another of L'Histoire
justifiée contre les Romans; and perhaps it was not his fault that the attack was spirited,
and the justification dull.

This "Méthode" and his "Tablettes Chronologiques," of nearly forty other publications are the
only ones which have outlived their writer; volumes, merely curious, are exiled to the shelf
of the collector; the very name of an author merely curious--that shadow of a shade--is not
always even preserved by a dictionary-compiler in the universal charity of his alphabetical
mortuary.

The history of this work is a striking instance of those imperfect beginnings, which have often
closed in the most important labours. This admirable "Méthode" made its first meagre appearance
in two volumes in 1713. It was soon reprinted at home and abroad, and translated into various
languages. In 1729 it assumed the dignity of four quartos; but at this stage it encountered
the vigilance of government, and the lacerating hand of a celebrated censeur, Gros de Boze.
It is said, that from a personal dislike of the author, he cancelled one hundred and fifty
pages from the printed copy submitted to his censorship. He had formerly approved of the work,
and had quietly passed over some of these obnoxious passages: it is certain that Gros de Boze,
in a dissertation on the Janus of the ancients in this work, actually erased a high commendation
of himself,[149] which Lenglet had, with unusual courtesy, bestowed on Gros de Boze; for as
a critic he is most penurious of panegyric, and there is always a caustic flavour even in his
drops of honey. This censeur either affected to disdain the commendation, or availed himself
of it as a trick of policy. This was a trying situation for an author, now proud of a great
work, and who himself partook more of the bull than of the lamb. He who winced at the scratch
of an epithet, beheld his perfect limbs bruised by erasures and mutilated by cancels. This
sort of troubles indeed was not unusual with Lenglet. He had occupied his old apartment in
the Bastile so often, that at the sight of the officer who was in the habit of conducting him
there, Lenglet would call for his nightcap and snuff; and finish the work he had then in hand
at the Bastile, where, he told Jordan, that he made his edition of Marot. He often silently
restituted an epithet or a sentence which had been condemned by the censeur, at the risk of
returning once more; but in the present desperate affair he took his revenge by collecting
the castrations into a quarto volume, which was sold clandestinely. I find, by Jordan, in his
Voyage Littéraire, who visited him, that it was his pride to read these cancels to his friends,
who generally, but secretly, were of opinion that the decision of the censeur was not so wrong
as the hardihood of Lenglet insisted on. All this increased the public rumour, and raised the
price of the cancels. The craft and mystery of authorship was practised by Lenglet to perfection;
and he often exulted, not only in the subterfuges by which he parried his censeurs, but in
his bargains with his booksellers, who were equally desirous to possess, while they half feared
to enjoy, his uncertain or his perilous copyrights. When the unique copy of the Méthode, in
its pristine state, before it had suffered any dilapidations, made its appearance at the sale
of the curious library of the censeur Gros de Boze, it provoked a Roxburgh competition, where
the collectors, eagerly outbidding each other, the price of this uncastrated copy reached to
1500 livres; and even more extraordinary in the history of French bibliography, than in our
own. The curious may now find all these cancel sheets, or castrations, preserved in one of
those works of literary history, to which the Germans have contributed more largely than other
European nations, and I have discovered that even the erasures, or bruises, are amply furnished
in another bibliographical record.[150]

This Méthode, after several later editions, was still enlarging itself by fresh supplements;
and having been translated by men of letters in Europe, by Coleti in Italy, by Mencken in Germany,
and by Dr. Rawlinson in England, these translators have enriched their own editions by more
copious articles, designed for their respective nations. The sagacity of the original writer
now renovated his work by the infusions of his translators; like old Æson, it had its veins
filled with green juices; and thus his old work was always undergoing the magic process of
rejuvenescence.[151]

The personal character of our author was as singular as many of the uncommon topics which engaged
his inquiries; these we might conclude had originated in mere eccentricity, or were chosen
at random. But Lenglet has shown no deficiency of judgment in several works of acknowledged
utility; and his critical opinions, his last editor has shown, have, for the greater part,
been sanctioned by the public voice. It is curious to observe how the first direction which
the mind of a hardy inquirer may take, will often account for that variety of uncommon topics
he delights in, and which, on a closer examination, may be found to bear an invisible connexion
with some preceding inquiry. As there is an association of ideas, so in literary history there
is an association of research; and a very judicious writer may thus be impelled to compose
on subjects which may be deemed strange or injudicious.

This observation may be illustrated by the literary history of Lenglet du Fresnoy. He opened
his career by addressing a letter and a tract to the Sorbonne, on the extraordinary affair
of Maria d'Agreda, abbess of the nunnery of the Immaculate Conception in Spain, whose mystical
Life of the Virgin, published on the decease of the abbess, and which was received with such
rapture in Spain, had just appeared at Paris, where it excited the murmurs of the pious, and
the inquiries of the curious. This mystical Life was declared to be founded on apparitions
and revelations experienced by the abbess. Lenglet proved, or asserted, that the abbess was
not the writer of this pretended Life, though the manuscript existed in her handwriting; and
secondly, that the apparitions and revelations recorded were against all the rules of apparitions
and revelations which he had painfully discovered. The affair was of a delicate nature. The
writer was young and incredulous; a grey-beard, more deeply versed in theology, replied, and
the Sorbonnists silenced our philosopher in embryo.

Lenglet confined these researches to his portfolio; and so long a period as fifty-five years
had elapsed before they saw the light. It was when Calmet published his Dissertations on Apparitions,
that the subject provoked Lenglet to return to his forsaken researches. He now published all
he had formerly composed on the affair of Maria d'Agreda, and two other works; the one, "Traité
historique et dogmatique sur les Apparitions, les Visions, et les Révélations particulières,"
in two volumes; and "Recueil de Dissertations anciennes et nouvelles, sur les Apparitions,
&c.," with a catalogue of authors on this subject, in four volumes. When he edited the Roman
de la Rose, in compiling the glossary of this ancient poem, it led him to reprint many of the
earliest French poets; to give an enlarged edition of the Arrêts d'Amour, that work of love
and chivalry, in which his fancy was now so deeply embedded; while the subject of Romance itself
naturally led to the taste of romantic productions which appeared in "L'Usage des Romans,"
and its accompanying copious nomenclature of all romances and romance-writers, ancient and
modern. Our vivacious Abbé had been bewildered by his delight in the works of a chemical philosopher;
and though he did not believe in the existence of apparitions, and certainly was more than
a sceptic in history, yet it is certain that the "grande oeuvre" was an article in his creed;
it would have ruined him in experiments, if he had been rich enough to have been ruined. It
altered his health; and the most important result of his chemical studies appears to have been
the invention of a syrup, in which he had great confidence; but its trial blew him up into
a tympany, from which he was only relieved by having recourse to a drug, also of his own discovery,
which, in counteracting the syrup, reduced him to an alarming state of atrophy. But the mischances
of the historian do not enter into his history: and our curiosity must be still eager to open
Lenglet's "Histoire de la Philosophie Hermétique," accompanied by a catalogue of the writers
in this mysterious science, in two volumes: as well as his enlarged edition of the works of
a great Paracelsian, Nicholas le Fevre. This philosopher was appointed by Charles the Second
superintendent over the royal laboratory at St. James's: he was also a member of the Royal
Society, and the friend of Boyle, to whom he communicated the secret of infusing young blood
into old veins, with a notion that he could renovate that which admits of no second creation.[152]
Such was the origin of Du Fresnoy's active curiosity on a variety of singular topics, the germs
of which may be traced to three or four of our author's principal works.

Our Abbé promised to write his own life, and his pugnacious vivacity, and hardy frankness,
would have seasoned a piece of autobiography; an amateur has, however, written it in the style
which amateurs like, with all the truth he could discover, enlivened by some secret history,
writing the life of Lenglet with the very spirit of Lenglet: it is a mask taken from the very
features of the man, not the insipid wax-work of an hyperbolical éloge-maker.[153]

Although Lenglet du Fresnoy commenced in early life his career as a man of letters, he was
at first engaged in the great chase of political adventure; and some striking facts are recorded,
which show his successful activity. Michault describes his occupations by a paraphrastical
delicacy of language, which an Englishman might not have so happily composed. The minister
for foreign affairs, the Marquis de Torcy, sent Lenglet to Lille, where the court of the Elector
of Cologne was then held: "He had particular orders to watch that the two ministers of the
elector should do nothing prejudicial to the king's affairs." He seems, however, to have watched
many other persons, and detected many other things. He discovered a captain, who agreed to
open the gates of Mons to Marlborough, for 100,000 piastres; the captain was arrested on the
parade, the letter of Marlborough was found in his pocket, and the traitor was broken on the
wheel. Lenglet denounced a foreign general in the French service, and the event warranted the
prediction. His most important discovery was that of the famous conspiracy of Prince Cellamar,
one of the chimerical plots of Alberoni; to the honour of Lenglet, he would not engage in its
detection unless the minister promised that no blood should be shed. These successful incidents
in the life of an honourable spy were rewarded with a moderate pension.--Lenglet must have
been no vulgar intriguer; he was not only perpetually confined by his very patrons when he
resided at home, for the freedom of his pen, but I find him early imprisoned in the citadel
of Strasburgh for six months: it is said for purloining some curious books from the library
of the Abbé Bignon, of which he had the care. It is certain that he knew the value of the scarcest
works, and was one of those lovers of bibliography who trade at times in costly rarities. At
Vienna he became intimately acquainted with the poet Rousseau, and Prince Eugene. The prince,
however, who suspected the character of our author, long avoided him. Lenglet insinuated himself
into the favour of the prince's librarian; and such was his bibliographical skill, that this
acquaintance ended in Prince Eugene laying aside his political dread, and preferring the advice
of Lenglet to his librarian's, to enrich his magnificent library. When the motive of Lenglet's
residence at Vienna became more and more suspected, Rousseau was employed to watch him; and
not yet having quarrelled with his brother spy, he could only report that the Abbé Lenglet
was every morning occupied in working on his "Tablettes Chronologiques," a work not worthy
of alarming the government; that he spent his evenings at a violin-player's married to a Frenchwoman,
and returned home at eleven. As soon as our historian had discovered that the poet was a brother
spy and newsmonger on the side of Prince Eugene, their reciprocal civilities cooled. Lenglet
now imagined that he owed his six months' retirement in the citadel of Strasburgh to the secret
officiousness of Rousseau: each grew suspicious of the other's fidelity; and spies are like
lovers, for their mutual jealousies settled into the most inveterate hatred. One of the most
defamatory libels is Lenglet's intended dedication of his edition of Marot to Rousseau, which
being forced to suppress in Holland, by order of the States-general; at Brussels, by the intervention
of the Duke of Aremberg; and by every means the friends of the unfortunate Rousseau could contrive;
was, however, many years afterwards at length subjoined by Lenglet to the first volume of his
work on Romances; where an ordinary reader may wonder at its appearance unconnected with any
part of the work. In this dedication, or "Éloge Historique," he often addresses "Mon cher Rousseau,"
but the irony is not delicate, and the calumny is heavy. Rousseau lay too open to the unlicensed
causticity of his accuser. The poet was then expatriated from France for a false accusation
against Saurin, in attempting to fix on him those criminal couplets, which so long disturbed
the peace of the literary world in France, and of which Rousseau was generally supposed to
be the writer; but of which on his death-bed he solemnly protested that he was guiltless. The
coup-de-grace is given to the poet, stretched on this rack of invective, by just accusations
on account of those infamous epigrams, which appear in some editions of that poet's works;
a lesson for a poet, if poets would be lessoned, who indulge their imagination at the cost
of their happiness, and seem to invent crimes, as if they themselves were criminals.

But to return to our Lenglet. Had he composed his own life, it would have offered a sketch
of political servitude and political adventure, in a man too intractable for the one, and too
literary for the other. Yet to the honour of his capacity, we must observe that he might have
chosen his patrons, would he have submitted to patronage. Prince Eugene at Vienna; Cardinal
Passionei at Rome; or Mons. Le Blanc, the French minister, would have held him on his own terms.
But "Liberty and my books!" was the secret ejaculation of Lenglet; and from that moment all
things in life were sacrificed to a jealous spirit of independence, which broke out in his
actions as well as in his writings; and a passion for study for ever crushed the worm of ambition.

He was as singular in his conversation, which, says Jordan, was extremely agreeable to a foreigner,
for he delivered himself without reserve on all things, and on all persons, seasoned with secret
and literary anecdotes. He refused all the conveniences offered by an opulent sister, that
he might not endure the restraint of a settled dinner-hour. He lived to his eightieth year,
still busied, and then died by one of those grievous chances, to which aged men of letters
are liable: our caustic critic slumbered over some modern work, and, falling into the fire
was burnt to death. Many characteristic anecdotes of the Abbé Lenglet have been preserved in
the Dictionnaire Historique, but I shall not repeat what is of easy recurrence.

FOOTNOTES:

  [149] This fact appears in the account of the minuter erasures.

  [150] The castrations are in Beyeri Memoriæ historico-criticæ
    Librorum rariorum, p. 166. The bruises are carefully noted in the
    Catalogue of the Duke de la Valière, 4467. Those who are curious
    in such singularities will be gratified by the extraordinary
    opinions and results in Beyer; and which after all were purloined
    from a manuscript "Abridgment of Universal History," which was drawn
    up by Count de Boulainvilliers, and more adroitly than delicately
    inserted by Lenglet in his own work. The original manuscript exists
    in various copies, which were afterwards discovered. The minuter
    corrections, in the Duke de la Valière's catalogue, furnish a most
    enlivening article in the dryness of bibliography.

  [151] The last edition, enlarged by Drouet, is in fifteen volumes,
    but is not later than 1772. It is still an inestimable manual for
    the historical student, as well as his Tablettes Chronologiques.

  [152] The "Dictionnaire Historique," 1789, in their article Nich. Le
    Fevre, notices the third edition of his "Course of Chemistry," that
    of 1664, in two volumes; but the present one of Lenglet du Fresnoy's
    is more recent, 1751, enlarged into five volumes, two of which
    contain his own additions. I have never met with this edition, and
    it is wanting at the British Museum. Le Fevre published a tract on
    the great cordial of Sir Walter Rawleigh, which may be curious.

  [153] This anonymous work of "Mémoires de Monsieur l'Abbé Lenglet du
    Fresnoy," although the dedication is signed G. P., is written by
    Michault, of Dijon, as a presentation copy to Count de Vienne in my
    possession proves. Michault is the writer of two volumes of
    agreeable "Mélanges Historiques et Philologiques;" and the present
    is a very curious piece of literary history. The "Dictionnaire
    Historique" has compiled the article of Lenglet entirely from this
    work; but the Journal des Sçavans was too ascetic in this opinion.
    Etoit-ce la peine de faire un livre pour apprendre au public qu'un
    homme de lettres fut espion, escroc, bizarre, fougueux, cynique,
    incapable d'amitié, de soumission aux loix? &c. Yet they do not
    pretend that the bibliography of Lenglet du Fresnoy is at all
    deficient in curiosity.

THE DICTIONARY OF TREVOUX.

A learned friend, in his very agreeable "Trimestre, or a Three Months' Journey in France and
Switzerland," could not pass through the small town of Trevoux without a literary association
of ideas which should accompany every man of letters in his tours, abroad or at home. A mind
well-informed cannot travel without discovering that there are objects constantly presenting
themselves, which suggest literary, historical, and moral facts. My friend writes, "As you
proceed nearer to Lyons you stop to dine at Trevoux, on the left bank of the Saone. On a sloping
hill, down to the water-side, rises an amphitheatre, crowned with an ancient Gothic castle,
in venerable ruin; under it is the small town of Trevoux, well known for its Journal and Dictionary,
which latter is almost an encyclopædia, as there are few things of which something is not said
in that most valuable compilation, and the whole was printed at Trevoux. The knowledge of this
circumstance greatly enhances the delight of any visitor who has consulted the book, and is
acquainted with its merit; and must add much to his local pleasures."

A work from which every man of letters may be continually deriving such varied knowledge, and
which is little known but to the most curious readers, claims a place in these volumes; nor
is the history of the work itself without interest. Eight large folios, each consisting of
a thousand closely printed pages, stand like a vast mountain, of which, before we climb, we
may be anxious to learn the security of the passage. The history of dictionaries is the most
mutable of all histories; it is a picture of the inconstancy of the knowledge of man; the learning
of one generation passes away with another; and a dictionary of this kind is always to be repaired,
to be rescinded, and to be enlarged.

The small town of Trevoux gave its name to an excellent literary journal, long conducted by
the Jesuits, and to this dictionary--as Edinburgh has to its Critical Review and Annual Register,
&c. It first came to be distinguished as a literary town from the Duc du Maine, as prince sovereign
of Dombes,[154] transferring to this little town of Trevoux not only his parliament and other
public institutions, but also establishing a magnificent printing-house, in the beginning of
the last century. The duke, probably to keep his printers in constant employ, instituted the
"Journal de Trévoux;" and this perhaps greatly tended to bring the printing-house into notice,
so that it became a favourite with many good writers, who appear to have had no other connexion
with the place; and this dictionary borrowed its first title, which it always preserved, merely
from the place where it was printed. Both the journal and the dictionary were, however, consigned
to the care of some learned Jesuits; and perhaps the place always indicated the principles
of the writers, of whom none were more eminent for elegant literature than the Jesuits.[155]

The first edition of this dictionary sprung from the spirit of rivalry, occasioned by a French
dictionary published in Holland, by the protestant Basnage de Beauval. The duke set his Jesuits
hastily to work; who, after a pompous announcement that this dictionary was formed on a plan
suggested by their patron, did little more than pillage Furetière, and rummage Basnage, and
produced three new folios without any novelties; they pleased the Duc du Maine, and no one
else. This was in 1704. Twenty years after, it was republished and improved; and editions increasing,
the volumes succeeded each other, till it reached to its present magnitude and value in eight
large folios, in 1771, the only edition now esteemed. Many of the names of the contributors
to this excellent collection of words and things, the industry of Monsieur Barbier has revealed
in his "Dictionnaire des Anonymes," art. 10782. The work, in the progress of a century, evidently
became a favourite receptacle with men of letters in France, who eagerly contributed the smallest
or largest articles with a zeal honourable to literature and most useful to the public. They
made this dictionary their commonplace book for all their curious acquisitions; every one competent
to write a short article, preserving an important fact, did not aspire to compile the dictionary,
or even an entire article in it; but it was a treasury in which such mites collected together
formed its wealth; and all the literati may be said to have engaged in perfecting these volumes
during a century. In this manner, from the humble beginnings of three volumes, in which the
plagiary much more than the contributor was visible, eight were at length built up with more
durable materials, and which claim the attention and the gratitude of the student.

The work, it appears, interested the government itself, as a national concern, from the tenor
of the following anecdotes.

Most of the minor contributors to this great collection were satisfied to remain anonymous;
but as might be expected among such a number, sometimes a contributor was anxious to be known
to his circle; and did not like this penitential abstinence of fame. An anecdote recorded of
one of this class will amuse: A Monsieur Lautour du Chatel, avocat au parlement de Normandie,
voluntarily devoted his studious hours to improve this work, and furnished nearly three thousand
articles to the supplement of the edition of 1752. This ardent scholar had had a lively quarrel
thirty years before with the first authors of the dictionary. He had sent them one thousand
three hundred articles, on condition that the donor should be handsomely thanked in the preface
of the new edition, and further receive a copy en grand papier. They were accepted. The conductors
of the new edition, in 1721, forgot all the promises--nor thanks, nor copy! Our learned avocat,
who was a little irritable, as his nephew who wrote his life acknowledges, as soon as the great
work appeared, astonished, like Dennis, that "they were rattling his own thunder," without
saying a word, quits his country town, and ventures, half dead with sickness and indignation,
on an expedition to Paris, to make his complaint to the chancellor; and the work was deemed
of that importance in the eye of government, and so zealous a contributor was considered to
have such an honourable claim, that the chancellor ordered, first, that a copy on large paper
should be immediately delivered to Monsieur Lautour, richly bound and free of carriage; and
secondly, as a reparation of the unperformed promise, and an acknowledgment of gratitude, the
omission of thanks should be inserted and explained in the three great literary journals of
France; a curious instance, among others, of the French government often mediating, when difficulties
occurred in great literary undertakings, and considering not lightly the claims and the honours
of men of letters.

Another proof, indeed, of the same kind, concerning the present work, occurred after the edition
of 1752. One Jamet l'aîné, who had with others been usefully employed on this edition, addressed
a proposal to government for an improved one, dated from the Bastile. He proposed that the
government should choose a learned person, accustomed to the labour of the researches such
a work requires; and he calculated, that if supplied with three amanuenses, such an editor
would accomplish his task in about ten or twelve years, the produce of the edition would soon
repay all the expenses and capital advanced. This literary projector did not wish to remain
idle in the Bastile. Fifteen years afterwards the last improved edition appeared, published
by the associated booksellers of Paris.

As for the work itself, it partakes of the character of our Encyclopædias; but in this respect
it cannot be safely consulted, for widely has science enlarged its domains and corrected its
errors since 1771. But it is precious as a vast collection of ancient and modern learning,
particularly in that sort of knowledge which we usually term antiquarian and philological.
It is not merely a grammatical, scientific, and technical dictionary, but it is replete with
divinity, law, moral philosophy, critical and historical learning, and abounds with innumerable
miscellaneous curiosities. It would be difficult, whatever may be the subject of inquiry, to
open it, without the gratification of some knowledge neither obvious nor trivial. I heard a
man of great learning declare, that whenever he could not recollect his knowledge he opened
Hoffman's Lexicon Universale Historicum, where he was sure to find what he had lost. The works
are similar; and valuable as are the German's four folios, the eight of the Frenchman may safely
be recommended as their substitute, or their supplement. As a Dictionary of the French Language
it bears a peculiar feature, which has been presumptuously dropped in the Dictionnaire de l'Académie;
the last invents phrases to explain words, which therefore have no other authority than the
writer himself! this of Trevoux is furnished, not only with mere authorities, but also with
quotations from the classical French writers--an improvement which was probably suggested by
the English Dictionary of Johnson. One nation improves by another.

FOOTNOTES:

  [154] It was always acknowledged as an independent state by the
    French kings from the time of Philip Augustus. It had its own
    parliament, and the privilege also of coining its own money.

  [155] The house in which the Jesuits resided, having the shield of
    arms of their order over its portal, still remains at Trevoux.

QUADRIO'S ACCOUNT OF ENGLISH POETRY.

It is, perhaps, somewhat mortifying in our literary researches to discover that our own literature
has been only known to the other nations of Europe comparatively within recent times. We have
at length triumphed over our continental rivals in the noble struggles of genius, and our authors
now see their works printed even at foreign presses, while we are furnishing with our gratuitous
labours nearly the whole literature of a new empire; yet so late as in the reign of Anne, our
poets were only known by the Latin versifiers of the "Musæ Anglicanæ;" and when Boileau was
told of the public funeral of Dryden, he was pleased with the national honours bestowed on
genius, but he declared that he never heard of his name before. This great legislator of Parnassus
has never alluded to one of our own poets, so insular then was our literary glory! The most
remarkable fact, or perhaps assertion, I have met with, of the little knowledge which the Continent
had of our writers, is a French translation of Bishop Hall's "Characters of Virtues and Vices."
It is a duodecimo, printed at Paris, of 109 pages, 1610, with this title Charactères de Vertus
et de Vices; tirés de l'Anglois de M. Josef Hall. In a dedication to the Earl of Salisbury,
the translator informs his lordship that "ce livre est la première traduction de l'Anglois
jamais imprimée en aucun vulgaire"--the first translation from the English ever printed in
any modern language! Whether the translator is a bold liar, or an ignorant blunderer, remains
to be ascertained; at all events it is a humiliating demonstration of the small progress which
our home literature had made abroad in 1610!

I come now to notice a contemporary writer, professedly writing the history of our Poetry,
of which his knowledge will open to us as we proceed with our enlightened and amateur historian.

Father Quadrio's Della Storia e dell' ragione d' ogni Poesia,--is a gigantic work, which could
only have been projected and persevered in by some hypochondriac monk, who, to get rid of the
ennui of life, could discover no pleasanter way than to bury himself alive in seven monstrous
closely-printed quartos, and every day be compiling something on a subject which he did not
understand. Fortunately for Father Quadrio, without taste to feel, and discernment to decide,
nothing occurred in this progress of literary history and criticism to abridge his volumes
and his amusements; and with diligence and erudition unparalleled, he has here built up a receptacle
for his immense, curious, and trifling knowledge on the poetry of every nation. Quadrio is
among that class of authors whom we receive with more gratitude than pleasure, fly to sometimes
to quote, but never linger to read; and fix on our shelves, but seldom have in our hands.

I have been much mortified, in looking over this voluminous compiler, to discover, although
he wrote so late as about 1750, how little the history of English poetry was known to foreigners.
It is assuredly our own fault. We have too long neglected the bibliography and the literary
history of our own country. Italy, Spain, and France have enjoyed eminent bibliographers--we
have none to rival them. Italy may justly glory in her Tiraboschi and her Mazzuchelli; Spain
in the Bibliothecas of Nicholas Antonio; and France, so rich in bibliographical treasures,
affords models to every literary nation of every species of literary history. With us, the
partial labour of the hermit Anthony for the Oxford writers, compiled before philosophical
criticism existed in the nation; and Warton's History of Poetry, which was left unfinished
at its most critical period, when that delightful antiquary of taste had just touched the threshold
of his Paradise--these are the sole great labours to which foreigners might resort, but these
will not be found of much use to them. The neglect of our own literary history has, therefore,
occasioned the errors, sometimes very ridiculous ones, of foreign writers respecting our authors.
Even the lively Chaudon, in his "Dictionnaire Historique," gives the most extraordinary accounts
of most of the English writers. Without an English guide to attend such weary travellers, they
have too often been deceived by the mirages of our literature. They have given blundering accounts
of works which do exist, and chronicled others which never did exist; and have often made up
the personal history of our authors, by confounding two or three into one. Chaudon, mentioning
Dryden's tragedies, observes, that Atterbury translated two into Latin verse, entitled Achitophel
and Absalom![156]

Of all these foreign authors, none has more egregiously failed than this good Father Quadrio.
In this universal history of poetry, I was curious to observe what sort of figure we made,
and whether the fertile genius of our original poets had struck the foreign critic with admiration
or with critical censure. But little was our English poetry known to its universal historian.
In the chapter on those who have cultivated "la melica poesia in propria lingua tra, Tedeschi,
Fiamminghi e Inglesi,"[157] we find the following list of English poets.

"Of John Gower; whose rhymes and verses are preserved in manuscript in the college of the most
Holy Trinity, in Cambridge.

"Arthur Kelton, flourished in 1548, a skilful English poet: he composed various poems in English;
also he lauds the Cambrians and their genealogy.

"The works of William Wycherly, in English prose and verse."

These were the only English poets whom Quadrio at first could muster together! In his subsequent
additions he caught the name of Sir Philip Sidney with an adventurous criticism, "le sue poesie
assai buone." He then was lucky enough to pick up the title--not the volume, surely--which
was one of the rarest; "Fiori poetici de A. Cowley," which he calls "poesie amorose:" this
must mean that early volume of Cowley's, published in his thirteenth year, under the title
of "Poetical Blossoms." Further he laid hold of "John Donne" by the skirt, and "Thomas Creech,"
at whom he made a full pause, informing his Italians that "his poems are reputed by his nation
as 'assai buone.'" He has also "Le opere di Guglielmo;" but to this Christian name, as it would
appear, he had not ventured to add the surname. At length, in his progress of inquiry, in his
fourth volume (for they were published at different periods), he suddenly discovers a host
of English poets--in Waller, Duke of Buckingham, Lord Roscommon, and others, among whom is
Dr. Swift; but he acknowledges their works have not reached him. Shakspeare at length appears
on the scene; but Quadrio's notions are derived from Voltaire, whom, perhaps, he boldly translates.
Instead of improving our drama, he conducted it a totale rovina nelle sue farse monstruose,
che si chiaman tragedie; alcune scene vi abbia luminose e belle e alcuni tratti si trovono
terribili e grandi. Otway is said to have composed a tragic drama on the subject of "Venezia
Salvata;" he adds with surprise, "ma affatto regolare." Regularity is the essence of genius
with such critics as Quadrio. Dryden is also mentioned; but the only drama specified is "King
Arthur." Addison is the first Englishman who produced a classical tragedy; but though Quadrio
writes much about the life of Addison, he never alludes to the Spectator.

We come now to a more curious point. Whether Quadrio had read our comedies may be doubtful;
but he distinguishes them by very high commendation. Our comedy, he says, represents human
life, the manners of citizens and the people, much better than the French and Spanish comedies,
in which all the business of life is mixed up with love affairs. The Spaniards had their gallantry
from the Moors, and their manners from chivalry; to which they added their tumid African taste,
differing from that of other nations. I shall translate what he now adds of English comedy.

"The English, more skilfully even than the French, have approximated to the true idea of comic
subjects, choosing for the argument of their invention the customary and natural objects of
the citizens and the populace. And when religion and decorum were more respected in their theatres,
they were more advanced in this species of poetry, and merited not a little praise, above their
neighbouring nations. But more than the English and the French (to speak according to pure
and bare truth) have the Italians signalised themselves." A sly, insinuating criticism! But,
as on the whole, for reasons which I cannot account for, Father Quadrio seems to have relished
our English comedy, we must value his candour. He praises our comedy; "per il bello ed il buono;"
but, as he is a methodical Aristotelian, he will not allow us that liberty in the theatre which
we are supposed to possess in parliament--by delivering whatever we conceive to the purpose.
His criticism is a specimen of the irrefragable. "We must not abandon legitimate rules to give
mere pleasure thereby; because pleasure is produced by, and flows from, the beautiful; and
the beautiful is chiefly drawn from the good order and unity in which it consists!"

Quadrio succeeded in discovering the name of one of our greatest comic geniuses; for, alluding
to our diversity of action in comedy, he mentions in his fifth volume, page 148,--"Il celebre
Benjanson, nella sua commedia intitolato Bartolommeo Foicere, e in quella altra commedia intitolato
Ipsum Veetz." The reader may decipher the poet's name with his Fair; but it required the critical
sagacity of Mr. Douce to discover that by Ipsum Veetz we are to understand Shadwell's comedy
of Epsom Wells. The Italian critic had transcribed what he and his Italian printer could not
spell. We have further discovered the source of his intelligence in St. Evremond, who had classed
Shadwell's comedy with Ben Jonson's. To such shifts is the writer of an universal history d'
ogni Poesia miserably reduced!

Towards the close of the fifth volume we at last find the sacred muse of Milton,--but, unluckily,
he was a man "di pochissima religione," and spoke of Christ like an Arian. Quadrio quotes Ramsay
for Milton's vomiting forth abuse on the Roman Church. His figures are said to be often mean,
unworthy of the majesty of his subject; but in a later place, excepting his religion, our poet,
it is decided on, is worthy "di molti laudi."

Thus much for the information the curious may obtain on English poetry from its universal history.
Quadrio unquestionably writes with more ignorance than prejudice against us: he has not only
highly distinguished the comic genius of our writers, and raised it above that of our neighbours,
but he has also advanced another discovery, which ranks us still higher for original invention,
and which, I am confident, will be as new as it is extraordinary to the English reader.

Quadrio, who, among other erudite accessories to his work, has exhausted the most copious researches
on the origin of Punch and Harlequin, has also written, with equal curiosity and value, the
history of Puppet-shows. But whom has he lauded? whom has he placed paramount, above all other
people, for their genius of invention in improving this art!--The English! and the glory which
has hitherto been universally conceded to the Italian nation themselves, appears to belong
to us! For we, it appears, while others were dandling and pulling their little representatives
of human nature into such awkward and unnatural motions, first invented pulleys, or wires,
and gave a fine and natural action to the artificial life of these gesticulating machines!

We seem to know little of ourselves as connected with the history of puppet-shows; but in an
article in the curious Dictionary of Trevoux, I find that John Brioché, to whom had been attributed
the invention of Marionnettes, is only to be considered as an improver; in his time (but the
learned writers supply no date) an Englishman discovered the secret of moving them by springs,
and without strings; but the Marionnettes of Brioché were preferred for the pleasantries which
he made them deliver. The erudite Quadrio appears to have more successfully substantiated our
claims to the pulleys or wires, or springs of the puppets, than any of our own antiquaries;
and perhaps the uncommemorated name of this Englishman was that Powell, whose Solomon and Sheba
were celebrated in the days of Addison and Steele; the former of whom has composed a classical
and sportive Latin poem on this very subject. But Quadrio might well rest satisfied that the
nation which could boast of its Fantoccini, surpassed, and must ever surpass the puny efforts
of a doll-loving people!

FOOTNOTES:

  [156] Even recently, il Cavaliere Onofrio Boni, in his Eloge of Lanzi,
    in naming the three Augustan periods of modern literature, fixes
    them, for the Italians, under Leo the Tenth; for the French, under
    Louis the Fourteenth, or the Great; and for the English, under
    Charles the Second!

  [157] Quadrio, vol. ii. p. 416.

"POLITICAL RELIGIONISM."

In Professor Dugald Stewart's first Dissertation on the Progress of Philosophy, I find this
singular and significant term. It has occasioned me to reflect on those contests for religion,
in which a particular faith has been made the ostensible pretext, while the secret motive was
usually political. The historians, who view in religious wars only religion itself, have written
large volumes, in which we may never discover that they have either been a struggle to obtain
predominance, or an expedient to secure it. The hatreds of ambitious men have disguised their
own purposes, while Christianity has borne the odium of loosening a destroying spirit among
mankind; which, had Christianity never existed, would have equally prevailed in human affairs.
Of a moral malady, it is not only necessary to know the nature, but to designate it by a right
name, that we may not err in our mode of treatment. If we call that religious which we shall
find for the greater part is political, we are likely to be mistaken in the regimen and the cure.

Fox, in his "Acts and Monuments," writes the martyrology of the Protestants in three mighty
folios; where, in the third, "the tender mercies" of the Catholics are "cut in wood" for those
who might not otherwise be enabled to read or spell them. Such pictures are abridgments of
long narratives, but they leave in the mind a fulness of horror. Fox made more than one generation
shudder; and his volume, particularly this third, chained to a reading-desk in the halls of
the great, and in the aisles of churches, often detained the loiterer, as it furnished some
new scene of papistical horrors to paint forth on returning to his fireside. The protestants
were then the martyrs, because, under Mary, the protestants had been thrown out of power.

Dodd has opposed to Fox three curious folios, which he calls "The Church History of England,"
exhibiting a most abundant martyrology of the catholics, inflicted by the hands of the protestants;
who in the succeeding reign of Elizabeth, after long trepidations and balancings, were confirmed
into power. He grieves over the delusion and seduction of the black-letter romance of honest
John Fox, which he says, "has obtained a place in protestant churches next to the Bible, while
John Fox himself is esteemed little less than an evangelist."[158] Dodd's narratives are not
less pathetic: for the situation of the catholic, who had to secrete himself, as well as to
suffer, was more adapted for romantic adventures, than even the melancholy but monotonous story
of the protestants tortured in the cell, or bound to the stake. These catholics, however, were
attempting all sorts of intrigues; and the saints and martyrs of Dodd, to the parliament of
England, were only traitors and conspirators!

Heylin, in his history of the Puritans and the Presbyterians, blackens them for political devils.
He is the Spagnolet of history, delighting himself with horrors at which the painter himself
must have started. He tells of their "oppositions" to monarchical and episcopal government;
their "innovations" in the church; and their "embroilments" of the kingdoms. The sword rages
in their hands; treason, sacrilege, plunder; while "more of the blood of Englishmen had poured
like water within the space of four years, than had been shed in the civil wars of York and
Lancaster in four centuries!"

Neal opposes a more elaborate history; where these "great and good men," the puritans and the
presbyterians, "are placed among the reformers;" while their fame is blanched into angelic
purity. Neal and his party opined that the protestant had not sufficiently protested, and that
the reformation itself needed to be reformed. They wearied the impatient Elizabeth and her
ardent churchmen; and disputed with the learned James, and his courtly bishops, about such
ceremonial trifles, that the historian may blush or smile who has to record them. And when
the puritan was thrown out of preferment, and seceded into separation, he turned into a presbyter.
Nonconformity was their darling sin, and their sullen triumph.

Calamy, in four painful volumes, chronicles the bloodless martyrology of the two thousand silenced
and ejected ministers. Their history is not glorious, and their heroes are obscure; but it
is a domestic tale. When the second Charles was restored, the presbyterians, like every other
faction, were to be amused, if not courted. Some of the king's chaplains were selected from
among them, and preached once. Their hopes were raised that they should, by some agreement,
be enabled to share in that ecclesiastical establishment which they had so often opposed; and
the bishops met the presbyters in a convocation at the Savoy. A conference was held between
the high church, resuming the seat of power, and the low church, now prostrate; that is, between
the old clergy who had recently been mercilessly ejected by the new, who in their turn were
awaiting their fate. The conference was closed with arguments by the weaker, and votes by the
stronger. Many curious anecdotes of this conference have come down to us. The presbyterians,
in their last struggle, petitioned for indulgence; but oppressors who had become petitioners,
only showed that they possessed no longer the means of resistance. This conference was followed
up by the Act of Uniformity, which took place on Bartholomew day, August 24, 1652: an act which
ejected Calamy's two thousand ministers from the bosom of the established church. Bartholomew
day with this party was long paralleled, and perhaps is still, with the dreadful French massacre
of that fatal saint's day. The calamity was rather, however, of a private than of a public
nature. The two thousand ejected ministers were indeed deprived of their livings; but this
was, however, a happier fate than what has often occurred in these contests for the security
of political power. This ejection was not like the expulsion of the Moriscoes, the best and
most useful subjects of Spain, which was a human sacrifice of half a million of men, and the
proscription of many Jews from that land of Catholicism; or the massacre of thousands of Huguenots,
and the expulsion of more than a hundred thousand by Louis the Fourteenth from France. The
presbyterian divines were not driven from their fatherland, and compelled to learn another
language than their mother-tongue. Destitute as divines, they were suffered to remain as citizens;
and the result was remarkable. These divines could not disrobe themselves of their learning
and their piety, while several of them were compelled to become tradesmen: among these the
learned Samuel Chandler, whose literary productions are numerous, kept a bookseller's shop
in the Poultry.

Hard as this event proved in its result, it was, however, pleaded, that "It was but like for
like." And that the history of "the like" might not be curtailed in the telling, opposed to
Calamy's chronicle of the two thousand ejected ministers stands another, in folio magnitude,
of the same sort of chronicle of the clergy of the Church of England, with a title by no means
less pathetic.

This is Walker's "Attempt towards recovering an Account of the Clergy of the Church of England
who were sequestered, harassed, &c., in the late Times." Walker is himself astonished at the
size of his volume, the number of his sufferers, and the variety of the sufferings. "Shall
the church," says he, "not have the liberty to preserve the history of her sufferings, as well
as the separation to set forth an account of theirs? Can Dr. Calamy be acquitted for publishing
the history of the Bartholomew sufferers, if I am condemned for writing that of the sequestered
loyalists?" He allows that "the number of the ejected amounts to two thousand," and there were
no less than "seven or eight thousand of the episcopal clergy imprisoned, banished, and sent
a starving," &c. &c.

Whether the reformed were martyred by the catholics, or the catholics executed by the reformed;
whether the puritans expelled those of the established church, or the established church ejected
the puritans, all seems reducible to two classes, conformists and non-conformists, or, in the
political style, the administration and the opposition. When we discover that the heads of
all parties are of the same hot temperament, and observe the same evil conduct in similar situations;
when we view honest old Latimer with his own hands hanging a mendicant friar on a tree, and,
the government changing, the friars binding Latimer to the stake; when we see the French catholics
cutting out the tongues of the protestants, that they might no longer protest; the haughty
Luther writing submissive apologies to Leo the Tenth and Henry the Eighth for the scurrility
with which he had treated them in his writings, and finding that his apologies were received
with contempt, then retracting his retractations; when we find that haughtiest of the haughty,
John Knox, when Elizabeth first ascended the throne, crouching and repenting of having written
his famous excommunication against all female sovereignty; or pulling down the monasteries,
from the axiom that when the rookery was destroyed, the rooks would never return; when we find
his recent apologist admiring, while he apologises for, some extraordinary proofs of Machiavelian
politics, an impenetrable mystery seems to hang over the conduct of men who profess to be guided
by the bloodless code of Jesus. But try them by a human standard, and treat them as politicians,
and the motives once discovered, the actions are understood!

Two edicts of Charles the Fifth, in 1555, condemned to death the Reformed of the Low Countries,
even should they return to the catholic faith, with this exception, however, in favour of the
latter, that they shall not be burnt alive, but that the men shall be beheaded, and the women
buried alive! Religion could not, then, be the real motive of the Spanish cabinet, for in returning
to the ancient faith that point was obtained; but the truth is, that the Spanish government
considered the reformed as rebels, whom it was not safe to re-admit to the rights of citizenship.
The undisguised fact appears in the codicil to the will of the emperor, when he solemnly declares
that he had written to the Inquisition "to burn and extirpate the heretics," after trying to
make Christians of them, because he is convinced that they never can become sincere catholics;
and he acknowledges that he had committed a great fault in permitting Luther to return free
on the faith of his safe-conduct, as the emperor was not bound to keep a promise with a heretic.
"It is because that I destroyed him not, that heresy has now become strong, which I am convinced
might have been stifled with him in its birth."[159] The whole conduct of Charles the Fifth
in this mighty revolution was, from its beginning, censured by contemporaries as purely political.
Francis the First observed that the emperor, under the colour of religion, was placing himself
at the head of a league to make his way to a predominant monarchy. "The pretext of religion
is no new thing," writes the Duke of Nevers. "Charles the Fifth had never undertaken a war
against the Protestant princes but with the design of rendering the Imperial crown hereditary
in the house of Austria; and he has only attacked the electoral princes to ruin them, and to
abolish their right of election. Had it been zeal for the catholic religion, would he have
delayed from 1519 to 1549 to arm? That he might have extinguished the Lutheran heresy, which
he could easily have done in 1526, but he considered that this novelty would serve to divide
the German princes, and he patiently waited till the effect was realised."[160]

Good men of both parties, mistaking the nature of these religious wars, have drawn horrid inferences!
The "dragonnades" of Louis XIV. excited the admiration of Bruyère; and Anquetil, in his "Esprit
de la Ligue," compares the revocation of the Edict of Nantes to a salutary amputation. The
massacre of St. Bartholomew in its own day, and even recently, has found advocates; a Greek
professor at the time asserted that there were two classes of protestants in France--political
and religious; and that "the late ebullition of public vengeance was solely directed against
the former." Dr. M'Crie, cursing the catholic with a catholic's curse, execrates "the stale
sophistry of this calumniator." But should we allow that the Greek professor who advocated
their national crime was the wretch the calvinistic doctor describes, yet the nature of things
cannot be altered by the equal violence of Peter Charpentier and Dr. M'Crie.

This subject of "Political Religionism" is indeed as nice as it is curious; politics have been
so cunningly worked into the cause of religion, that the parties themselves will never be able
to separate them; and to this moment the most opposite opinions are formed concerning the same
events and the same persons. When public disturbances broke out at Nismes on the first restoration
of the Bourbons, the protestants, who there are numerous, declared that they were persecuted
for religion, and their cry, echoed by their brethren the dissenters, resounded in this country.
We have not forgotten the ferment it raised here; much was said, and something was done. Our
minister, however, persisted in declaring that it was a mere political affair. It is clear
that our government was right on the cause, and those zealous complainants wrong, who only
observed the effect; for as soon as the Bourbonists had triumphed over the Bonapartists, we
heard no more of those sanguinary persecutions of the protestants of Nismes, of which a dissenter
has just published a large history. It is a curious fact, that when two writers at the same
time were occupied in a Life of Cardinal Ximenes, Flechier converted the cardinal into a saint,
and every incident in his administration was made to connect itself with his religious character;
Marsollier, a writer very inferior to Flechier, shows the cardinal merely as a politician.
The elegances of Flechier were soon neglected by the public, and the deep interests of truth
soon acquired, and still retain, for the less elegant writer the attention of the statesman.

A modern historian has observed that "the affairs of religion were the grand fomenters and
promoters of the Thirty Years' War, which first brought down the powers of the North to mix
in the politics of the Southern states." The fact is indisputable, but the cause is not so
apparent. Gustavus Adolphus, the vast military genius of his age, had designed, and was successfully
attempting, to oppose the overgrown power of the imperial house of Austria, which had long
aimed at an universal monarchy in Europe; a circumstance which Philip IV. weakly hinted at
to the world when he placed this motto under his arms--"Sine ipso factum est nihil;" an expression
applied to Jesus Christ by St. John!

FOOTNOTES:

  [158] "Fox's Martyrs," as the book was popularly called, was often
    chained to a reading-desk in churches; one is still thus affixed at
    Cirencester; it thus received equal honour with the Bible.

  [159] Llorente's "Critical History of the Inquisition."

  [160] Naudé, "Considérations Politiques," p. 115. See a curious note
    in Hart's "Life of Gustavus Adolphus," ii. 129.

TOLERATION.

An enlightened toleration is a blessing of the last age--it would seem to have been practised
by the Romans, when they did not mistake the primitive Christians for seditious members of
society; and was inculcated even by Mahomet, in a passage in the Koran, but scarcely practised
by his followers. In modern history it was condemned when religion was turned into a political
contest under the aspiring house of Austria--and in Spain--and in France. It required a long
time before its nature was comprehended--and to this moment it is far from being clear, either
to the tolerators or the tolerated.

It does not appear that the precepts or the practice of Jesus and the apostles inculcate the
compelling of any to be Christians;[161] yet an expression employed in the nuptial parable
of the great supper, when the hospitable lord commanded the servant, finding that he had still
room to accommodate more guests, to go out in the highways and hedges, and "compel them to
come in, that my house may be filled," was alleged as an authority by those catholics who called
themselves "the converters," for using religious force, which, still alluding to the hospitable
lord, they called "a charitable and salutary violence." It was this circumstance which produced
Bayle's "Commentaire Philosophique sur ces Paroles de Jesus Christ," published under the supposititious
name of an Englishman, as printed at Canterbury in 1686, but really at Amsterdam. It is curious
that Locke published his first letter on "Toleration" in Latin at Gouda, in 1689--the second
in 1690--and the third in 1692. Bayle opened the mind of Locke, and some time after quotes
Locke's Latin letter with high commendation.[162] The caution of both writers in publishing
in foreign places, however, indicates the prudence which it was deemed necessary to observe
in writing in favour of toleration.

These were the first philosophical attempts; but the earliest advocates for toleration may
be found among the religious controversialists of a preceding period; it was probably started
among the fugitive sects who had found an asylum in Holland. It was a blessing which they had
gone far to find, and the miserable, reduced to humane feelings, are compassionate to one another.
With us the sect called "the Independents" had, early in our revolution under Charles the First,
pleaded for the doctrine of religious liberty, and long maintained it against the presbyterians.
Both proved persecutors when they possessed power. The first of our respectable divines who
advocated this cause were Jeremy Taylor, in his "Discourse on the Liberty of Prophesying,"
1647, and Bishop Hall, who had pleaded the cause of moderation in a discourse about the same
period.[163] Locke had no doubt examined all these writers. The history of opinions is among
the most curious of histories; and I suspect that Bayle was well acquainted with the pamphlets
of our sectarists, who, in their flight to Holland, conveyed those curiosities of theology,
which had cost them their happiness and their estates: I think he indicates this hidden source
of his ideas by the extraordinary ascription of his book to an Englishman, and fixing the place
of its publication at Canterbury!

Toleration has been a vast engine in the hands of modern politicians. It was established in
the United Provinces of Holland, and our numerous non-conformists took refuge in that asylum
for disturbed consciences; it attracted a valuable community of French refugees; it conducted
a colony of Hebrew fugitives from Portugal; conventicles of Brownists, quakers' meetings, French
churches, and Jewish synagogues, and (had it been required) Mahometan mosques, in Amsterdam,
were the precursors of its mart, and its exchange; the moment they could preserve their consciences
sacred to themselves, they lived without mutual persecution, and mixed together as good Dutchmen.

The excommunicated part of Europe seemed to be the most enlightened, and it was then considered
as a proof of the admirable progress of the human mind, that Locke and Clarke and Newton corresponded
with Leibnitz, and others of the learned in France and Italy. Some were astonished that philosophers
who differed in their religious opinions should communicate among themselves with so much toleration.[164]

It is not, however, clear that had any one of these sects at Amsterdam obtained predominance,
which was sometimes attempted, they would have granted to others the toleration they participated
in common. The infancy of a party is accompanied by a political weakness which disables it
from weakening others.

The catholic in this country pleads for toleration; in his own he refuses to grant it. Here,
the presbyterian, who had complained of persecution, once fixed in the seat of power, abrogated
every kind of independence among others. When the flames consumed Servetus at Geneva, the controversy
began, whether the civil magistrate might punish heretics, which Beza, the associate of Calvin,
maintained; he triumphed in the small predestinating city of Geneva; but the book he wrote
was fatal to the protestants a few leagues distant, among a majority of catholics. Whenever
the protestants complained of the persecutions they suffered, the catholics, for authority
and sanction, never failed to appeal to the volume of their own Beza.

M. Necker de Saussure has recently observed on "what trivial circumstances the change or the
preservation of the established religion in different districts of Europe has depended!" When
the Reformation penetrated into Switzerland, the government of the principality of Neufchatel,
wishing to allow liberty of conscience to all their subjects, invited each parish to vote "for
or against the adoption of the new worship; and in all the parishes, except two, the majority
of suffrages declared in favour of the protestant communion." The inhabitants of the small
village of Cressier had also assembled; and forming an even number, there happened to be an
equality of votes for and against the change of religion. A shepherd being absent, tending
the flocks on the hills, they summoned him to appear and decide this important question: when,
having no liking to innovation, he gave his voice in favour of the existing form of worship;
and this parish remained catholic, and is so at this day, in the heart of the protestant cantons.

I proceed to some facts which I have arranged for the history of Toleration. In the Memoirs
of James the Second, when that monarch published "The Declaration for Liberty of Conscience,"
the catholic reasons and liberalises like a modern philosopher: he accuses "the jealousy of
our clergy, who had degraded themselves into intriguers; and like mechanics in a trade, who
are afraid of nothing so much as interlopers--they had therefore induced indifferent persons
to imagine that their earnest contest was not about their faith, but about their temporal possessions.
It was incongruous that a church, which does not pretend to be infallible, should constrain
persons, under heavy penalties and punishments, to believe as she does: they delighted, he
asserted, to hold an iron rod over dissenters and catholics; so sweet was dominion, that the
very thought of others participating in their freedom made them deny the very doctrine they
preached." The chief argument the catholic urged on this occasion was "the reasonableness of
repealing laws which made men liable to the greatest punishments for that it was not in their
power to remedy, for that no man could force himself to believe what he really did not believe."[165]

Such was the rational language of the most bigoted of zealots!--The fox can bleat like the
lamb. At the very moment James the Second was uttering this mild expostulation, in his own
heart he had anathematised the nation; for I have seen some of the king's private papers, which
still exist; they consist of communications, chiefly by the most bigoted priests, with the
wildest projects, and most infatuated prophecies and dreams, of restoring the true catholic
faith in England! Had the Jesuit-led monarch retained the English throne, the language he now
addressed to the nation would have been no longer used; and in that case it would have served
his protestant subjects. He asked for toleration, to become intolerant! He devoted himself,
not to the hundredth part of the English nation; and yet he was surprised that he was left
one morning without an army! When the catholic monarch issued this declaration for "liberty
of conscience," the Jekyll of his day observed, that "it was but scaffolding: they intend to
build another house, and when that house (Popery) is built, they will take down the scaffold."[166]

When presbytery was our lord, they who had endured the tortures of persecution, and raised
such sharp outcries for freedom, of all men were the most intolerant: hardly had they tasted
of the Circean cup of dominion, ere they were transformed into the most hideous or the most
grotesque monsters of political power. To their eyes toleration was an hydra, and the dethroned
bishops had never so vehemently declaimed against what, in ludicrous rage, one of the high-flying
presbyterians called "a cursed intolerable toleration!" They advocated the rights of persecution;
and "shallow Edwards," as Milton calls the author of "The Gangræna," published a treatise against
toleration. They who had so long complained of "the licensers," now sent all the books they
condemned to penal fires. Prynne now vindicated the very doctrines under which he himself had
so severely suffered; assuming the highest possible power of civil government, even to the
infliction of death on its opponents. Prynne lost all feeling for the ears of others!

The idea of toleration was not intelligible for too long a period in the annals of Europe:
no parties probably could conceive the idea of toleration in the struggle for predominance.
Treaties are not proffered when conquest is the concealed object. Men were immolated! a massacre
was a sacrifice! medals were struck to commemorate these holy persecutions![167] The destroying
angel, holding in one hand a cross, and in the other a sword, with these words--Vgonottorum
Strages, 1572--"The massacre of the Huguenots"--proves that toleration will not agree with
that date.[168] Castelnau, a statesman and a humane man, was at a loss how to decide on a point
of the utmost importance to France. In 1532 they first began to burn the Lutherans or Calvinists,
and to cut out the tongues of all protestants, "that they might no longer protest." According
to Father Paul, fifty thousand persons had perished in the Netherlands, by different tortures,
for religion. But a change in the religion of the state, Castelnau considered, would occasion
one in the government: he wondered how it happened, that the more they punished with death,
it only increased the number of the victims: martyrs produced proselytes. As a statesman, he
looked round the great field of human actions in the history of the past; there he discovered
that the Romans were more enlightened in their actions than ourselves; that Trajan commanded
Pliny the younger not to molest the Christians for their religion, but should their conduct
endanger the state, to put down illegal assemblies; that Julian the Apostate expressly forbad
the execution of the Christians, who then imagined that they were securing their salvation
by martyrdom; but he ordered all their goods to be confiscated--a severe punishment--by which
Julian prevented more than he could have done by persecutions. "All this," he adds, "we read
in ecclesiastical history."[169] Such were the sentiments of Castelnau, in 1560. Amidst perplexities
of state necessity, and of our common humanity, the notion of toleration had not entered into
the views of the statesman. It was also at this time that De Sainctes, a great controversial
writer, declared, that had the fires lighted for the destruction of Calvinism not been extinguished,
the sect had not spread! About half a century subsequent to this period, Thuanus was, perhaps,
the first great mind who appears to have insinuated to the French monarch and his nation, that
they might live at peace with heretics; by which avowal he called down on himself the haughty
indignation of Rome, and a declaration that the man who spoke in favour of heretics must necessarily
be one of the first class. Hear the afflicted historian: "Have men no compassion, after forty
years passed full of continual miseries? Have they no fear after the loss of the Netherlands,
occasioned by the frantic obstinacy which marked the times? I grieve that such sentiments should
have occasioned my book to have been examined with a rigour that amounts to calumny." Such
was the language of Thuanus, in a letter written in 1606;[170] which indicates an approximation
to toleration, but which term was not probably yet found in any dictionary. We may consider,
as so many attempts at toleration, the great national synod of Dort, whose history is amply
written by Brandt; and the mitigating protestantism of Laud, to approximate to the ceremonies
of the Roman church; but the synod, after holding about two hundred sessions, closed, dividing
men into universalists and semi-universalists, supralapsarians and sublapsarians! The reformed
themselves produced the remonstrants; and Laud's ceremonies ended in placing the altar eastward,
and in raising the scaffold for the monarchy and the hierarchy. Error is circuitous when it
will do what it has not yet learnt. They were pressing for conformity to do that which, a century
afterwards, they found could only be done by toleration.

The secret history of toleration among certain parties has been disclosed to us by a curious
document, from that religious Machiavel, the fierce ascetic republican John Knox, a calvinistical
Pope. "While the posterity of Abraham," says that mighty and artful reformer, "were few in
number, and while they sojourned in different countries, they were merely required to avoid
all participation in the idolatrous rites of the heathen; but as soon as they prospered into
a kingdom, and had obtained possession of Canaan, they were strictly charged to suppress idolatry,
and to destroy all the monuments and incentives. The same duty was now incumbent on the professors
of the true religion in Scotland. Formerly, when not more than ten persons in a county were
enlightened, it would have been foolishness to have demanded of the nobility the suppression
of idolatry. But now, when knowledge had been increased," &c.[171] Such are the men who cry
out for toleration during their state of political weakness, but who cancel the bond by which
they hold their tenure whenever they "obtain possession of Canaan." The only commentary on
this piece of the secret history of toleration is the acute remark of Swift:--"We are fully
convinced that we shall always tolerate them, but not that they will tolerate us."

The truth is that TOLERATION was allowed by none of the parties! and I will now show the dilemmas
into which each party thrust itself.

When the kings of England would forcibly have established episcopacy in Scotland, the presbyters
passed an act against the toleration of dissenters from presbyterian doctrines and discipline;
and thus, as Guthrie observes, they were committing the same violence on the consciences of
their brethren which they opposed in the king. The presbyterians contrived their famous covenant
to dispossess the royalists of their livings; and the independents, who assumed the principle
of toleration in their very name, shortly after enforced what they called the engagement, to
eject the presbyterians! In England, where the dissenters were ejected, their great advocate
Calamy complains that the dissenters were only making use of the same arguments which the most
eminent reformers had done in their noble defence of the reformation against the papists; while
the arguments of the established church against the dissenters were the same which were urged
by the papists against the protestant reformation![172] When the presbyterians were our masters,
and preached up the doctrine of passive obedience in spiritual matters to the civil power,
it was unquestionably passing a self-condemnation on their own recent opposition and detraction
of the former episcopacy. Whenever men act from a secret motive entirely contrary to their
ostensible one, such monstrous results will happen; and as extremes will join, however opposite
they appear in their beginnings, John Knox and Father Petre, in office, would have equally
served James the Second as confessor and prime minister!

A fact relating to the famous Justus Lipsius proves the difficulty of forming a clear notion
of TOLERATION. This learned man, after having been ruined by the religious wars of the Netherlands,
found an honourable retreat in a professor's chair at Leyden, and without difficulty abjured
papacy. He published some political works: and adopted as his great principle, that only one
religion should be allowed to a people, and that no clemency should be granted to non-conformists,
who, he declares, should be pursued by sword and fire: in this manner a single member would
be cut off to preserve the body sound. Ure, seca--are his words. Strange notions these in a
protestant republic; and, in fact, in Holland it was approving of all the horrors of their
oppressors, the Duke d'Alva and Philip the Second, from which they had hardly recovered.[173]
It was a principle by which we must inevitably infer, says Bayle, that in Holland no other
mode of religious belief but one sect should be permitted; and that those Pagans who had hanged
the missionaries of the gospel had done what they ought. Lipsius found himself sadly embarrassed
when refuted by Theodore Cornhert,[174] the firm advocate of political and religious freedom,
and at length Lipsius, that protestant with a catholic heart, was forced to eat his words,
like Pistol his onion, declaring that the two objectionable words, ure, seca, were borrowed
from medicine, meaning not literally fire and sword, but a strong efficacious remedy, one of
those powerful medicines to expel poison. Jean de Serres, a warm Huguenot, carried the principle
of TOLERATION so far in his "Inventaire générale de l'Histoire de France," as to blame Charles
Martel for compelling the Frisans, whom he had conquered, to adopt Christianity! "A pardonable
zeal," he observes, "in a warrior; but in fact the minds of men cannot be gained over by arms,
nor that religion forced upon them, which must be introduced into the hearts of men by reason."
It is curious to see a protestant, in his zeal for toleration, blaming a king for forcing idolaters
to become Christians; and to have found an opportunity to express his opinions in the dark
history of the eighth century, is an instance how historians incorporate their passions in
their works, and view ancient facts with modern eyes.

The protestant cannot grant toleration to the catholic, unless the catholic ceases to be a
papist; and the Arminian church, which opened its wide bosom to receive every denomination
of Christians, nevertheless were forced to exclude the papists, for their passive obedience
to the supremacy of the Roman pontiff. The catholic has curiously told us, on this word toleration,
that Ce mot devient fort en usage à mesure que le nombre des tolérans augmente.[175] It was
a word which seemed of recent introduction, though the book is modern! The protestants have
disputed much how far they might tolerate, or whether they should tolerate at all; "a difficulty,"
triumphantly exclaims the catholic, "which they are not likely ever to settle, while they maintain
their principles of pretended reformation; the consequences which naturally follow excite horror
to the Christian. It is the weak who raise such outcries for toleration; the strong find authority
legitimate."

A religion which admits not of toleration cannot be safely tolerated, if there is any chance
of its obtaining a political ascendancy.

When Priscillian and six of his followers were condemned to torture and execution for asserting
that the three persons of the Trinity were to be considered as three different acceptions of
the same being, Saint Ambrose and Saint Martin asserted the cause of offended humanity, and
refused to communicate with the bishops who had called out for the blood of the Priscillianists;
but Cardinal Baronius, the annalist of the church, was greatly embarrassed to explain how men
of real purity could abstain from applauding the ardent zeal of the persecution: he preferred
to give up the saints rather than to allow of toleration--for he acknowledges that the toleration
which these saints would have allowed was not exempt from sin.[176]

In the preceding article, "Political Religionism," we have shown how to provide against the
possible evil of the tolerated becoming the tolerators! Toleration has been suspected of indifference
to religion itself; but with sound minds, it is only an indifference to the logomachies of
theology--things "not of God, but of man," that have perished, and that are perishing around us!

FOOTNOTES:

  [161] Bishop Barlow's "Several Miscellaneous and Weighty Cases of
    Conscience Resolved," 1692. His "Case of a Toleration in Matters of
    Religion," addressed to Robert Boyle, p. 39. This volume was not
    intended to have been given to the world, a circumstance which does
    not make it the less curious.

  [162] In the article Sancterius. Note F.

  [163] Recent writers among our sectarists assert that Dr. Owen was
    the first who wrote in favour of toleration, in 1648! Another
    claims the honour for John Goodwin, the chaplain of Oliver Cromwell,
    who published one of his obscure polemical tracts in 1644, among a
    number of other persons who, at that crisis, did not venture to
    prefix their names to pleas in favour of toleration, so delicate and
    so obscure did this subject then appear! In 1651, they translated
    the liberal treatise of Grotius, De Imperio Summarum Potestatum
    circa Sacra, under the title of "The Authority of the Highest
    Powers about Sacred Things." London, 8vo, 1651. To the honour of
    Grotius, the first of philosophical reformers, be it recorded, that
    he displeased both parties!

  [164] J. P. Rabaut, "sur la Revolution Française," p. 27.

  [165] "Life of James the Second, from his own Papers," ii 114.

  [166] This was a Baron Wallop. From Dr. H. Sampson's Manuscript Diary.

  [167] It is curious to observe that the catholics were afterwards
    ashamed of these indiscretions; they were unwilling to own that
    there were any medals which commemorate massacres. Thuanus, in his
    53rd book, has minutely described them. The medals, however, have
    become excessively scarce; but copies inferior to the originals have
    been sold. They had also pictures on similar subjects, accompanied
    by insulting inscriptions, which latter they have effaced, sometimes
    very imperfectly. See Hollis's "Memoirs," p. 312-14. This enthusiast
    advertised in the papers to request travellers to procure them.

  [168] The Sala Regia of the Vatican has still upon its walls a
    painting by Vasari of this massacre, among the other important
    events in the history of the Popes similarly commemorated.

  [169] "Mémoires de Michel de Castelnau," liv. i. c. 4.

  [170] "Life of Thuanus, by the Rev. J. Collinson," p. 115.

  [171] Dr. M'Crie's "Life of John Knox," ii. 122.

  [172] I quote from an unpublished letter, written so late as in 1749,
    addressed to the author of "The Free and Candid Disquisition," by
    the Rev. Thomas Allen, rector of Kettering, Northamptonshire.
    However extravagant his doctrine appears to us, I suspect that it
    exhibits the concealed sentiments of even some protestant churchmen!
    This rector of Kettering attributes the growth of schism to the
    negligence of the clergy, and seems to have persecuted both the
    archbishops, "to his detriment," as he tells us, with singular plans
    of reform borrowed from monastic institutions. He wished to revive
    the practice inculcated by a canon of the counsel of Laodicea of
    having prayers ad horam nonam et ad vesperam--prayers twice a day
    in the churches. But his grand project take in his own words:--

    "I let the archbishop know that I had composed an irenicon,
    wherein I prove the necessity of an ecclesiastical power over
    consciences in matters of religion, which utterly silences their
    arguments who plead so hard for toleration. If this book were
    reprinted and considered, the king would know his power and the
    people their duty."

    The rector of Kettering seems not to have known that the author of
    this "Discourse on Ecclesiastical Polity" was the notorious Parker,
    immortalised by the satire of Marvell. This political apostate, from
    a republican and presbyterian, became a furious advocate for
    arbitrary government in church and state! He easily won the favour
    of James the Second, who made him Bishop of Oxford! His principles
    were so violent that Father Petre, the confessor of James, made sure
    of him! This letter of the rector of Kettering, in adopting the
    system of such a catholic bishop, confirms my suspicion that
    toleration is condemned as an evil among some protestants!

  [173] The cruelties practised by the Protestant against the Catholic
    party are pictured and described in Arnoudt Van Geluwe's book, "Over
    de Ontledinghe van dry verscheyden Niew-Ghereformeerde Martelaers
    Boecken," published at Antwerp in 1656.

  [174] Cornhert was one of the fathers of Dutch literature, and even
    of their arts. He was the composer of the great national air of
    William of Orange; he was too a famous engraver, the master of
    Goltzius. On his death-bed he was still writing against the
    persecution of heretics.

  [175] "Dictionnaire de Trevoux," ad vocem Tolerance. Printed in 1771.

  [176] Sismondi, "Hist. des Français," i. 41. The character of the
    first person who introduced civil persecution into the Christian
    church has been described by Sulpicius Severus. See Dr. Maclaine's
    note in his translation of Mosheim's "Ecclesiastical History," vol.
    i. 428.

APOLOGY FOR THE PARISIAN MASSACRE.

An original document now lying before me, the autograph letter of Charles the Ninth, will prove,
that the unparalleled massacre, called by the world religious, was, in the French cabinet,
considered merely as political; one of those revolting state expedients which a pretended instant
necessity has too often inflicted on that part of a nation which, like the undercurrent, subterraneously
works its way, and runs counter to the great stream, till the critical moment arrives when
one or the other must cease.

The massacre began on St. Bartholomew day, in August, 1572, lasted in France during seven days:
that awful event interrupted the correspondence of our court with that of France. A long silence
ensued; the one did not dare to tell the tale which the other could not listen to. But sovereigns
know how to convert a mere domestic event into a political expedient. Charles the Ninth, on
the birth of a daughter, sent over an ambassador extraordinary to request Elizabeth to stand
as sponsor: by this the French monarch obtained a double purpose; it served to renew his interrupted
intercourse with the silent queen, and alarmed the French protestants by abating their hopes,
which long rested on the aid of the English queen.

The following letter, dated 8th February, 1573, is addressed by the king to La Motte Fénélon,
his resident ambassador at London. The king in this letter minutely details a confidential
intercourse with his mother, Catharine of Medicis, who, perhaps, may have dictated this letter
to the secretary, although signed by the king with his own hand.[177] Such minute particulars
could only have been known to herself. The Earl of Wolchester (Worcester) was now taking his
departure, having come to Paris on the baptism of the princess; and accompanied by Walsingham,
our resident ambassador, after taking leave of Charles, had the following interview with Catharine
de Medicis. An interview with the young monarch was usually concluded by a separate audience
with his mother, who probably was still the directress of his councils.

The French court now renewed their favourite project of marrying the Duke d'Alençon with Elizabeth.
They had long wished to settle this turbulent spirit, and the negotiation with Elizabeth had
been broken off in consequence of the massacre at Paris. They were somewhat uneasy lest he
should share the fate of his brother, the Duke of Anjou, who had not long before been expedited
on the same fruitless errand; and Elizabeth had already objected to the disparity of their
ages, the Duke of Alençon, being only seventeen, and the maiden queen six-and-thirty; but Catharine
observed that Alençon was only one year younger than his brother, against whom this objection
had not occurred to Elizabeth, for he had been sent back upon another pretext--some difficulty
which the queen had contrived about his performing mass in his own house.

After Catharine de Medicis had assured the Earl of Worcester of her great affection for the
Queen of England, and her and the king's strict intention to preserve it, and that they were
therefore desirous of this proposed marriage taking place, she took this opportunity of inquiring
of the Earl of Worcester the cause of the queen his mistress's marked coolness toward them.
The narrative becomes now dramatic.

"On this Walsingham, who kept always close by the side of the count, here took on himself to
answer, acknowledging that the said count had indeed been charged to speak on this head; and
he then addressed some words in English to Worcester. And afterwards the count gave to my lady
and mother to understand, that the queen his mistress had been waiting for an answer on two
articles; the one concerning religion, and the other for an interview. My lady and mother instantly
replied, that she had never heard any articles mentioned, on which she would not have immediately
satisfied the Sieur Walsingham, who then took up the word; first observing that the count was
not accustomed to business of this nature, but that he himself knew for certain that the cause
of this negotiation for marriage not being more advanced, was really these two unsettled points:
that his mistress still wished that the point of religion should be cleared up; for that they
concluded in England that this business was designed only to amuse and never to be completed
(as happened in that of my brother the Duke of Anjou); and the other point concerned the interview
between my brother the Duke of Alençon; because some letters which may have been written between
the parties[178] in such sort of matters, could not have the same force which the sight and
presence of both the persons would undoubtedly have. But, he added, another thing, which had
also greatly retarded this business, was what had happened lately in this kingdom; and during
such troubles, proceeding from religion, it could not have been well timed to have spoken with
them concerning the said marriage; and that himself and those of his nation had been in great
fear in this kingdom, thinking that we intended to extirpate all those of the said religion.
On this, my lady and mother answered him instantly and in order: That she was certain that
the queen his mistress could never like nor value a prince who had not his religion at heart;
and whoever would desire to have this otherwise, would be depriving him of what we hold dearest
in this world; That he might recollect that my brother had always insisted on the freedom of
religion, and that it was from the difficulty of its public exercise, which he always insisted
on, which had broken off this negotiation: the Duke d'Alençon will be satisfied when this point
is agreed on, and will hasten over to the queen, persuaded that she will not occasion him the
pain and the shame of passing over the seas without happily terminating this affair. In regard
to what has occurred these latter days, that he must have seen how it happened by the fault
of the chiefs of those who remained here; for when the late admiral was treacherously wounded
at Nôtre Dame, he knew the affliction it threw us into (fearful that it might have occasioned
great troubles in this kingdom), and the diligence we used to verify judicially whence it proceeded;
and the verification was nearly finished, when they were so forgetful, as to raise a conspiracy,
to attempt the lives of myself, my lady and mother, and my brothers, and endanger the whole
state; which was the cause, that to avoid this, I was compelled, to my very great regret, to
permit what had happened in this city; but as he had witnessed, I gave orders to stop, as soon
as possible, this fury of the people, and place every one in repose. On this, the Sieur Walsingham
replied to my lady and mother, that the exercise of the said religion had been interdicted
in this kingdom. To which she also answered, that this had not been done but for a good and
holy purpose; namely, that the fury of the catholic people might the sooner be allayed, who
else had been reminded of the past calamities, and would again have been let loose against
those of the said religion, had they continued to preach in this kingdom. Also should these
once more fix on any chiefs, which I will prevent as much as possible, giving him clearly and
pointedly to understand, that what is done here is much the same as what has been done, and
is now practised by the queen his mistress in her kingdom. For she permits the exercise but
of one religion, although there are many of her people who are of another; and having also,
during her reign, punished those of her subjects whom she found seditious and rebellious. It
is true this has been done by the laws, but I indeed could not act in the same manner; for
finding myself in such imminent peril, and the conspiracy raised against me and mine, and my
kingdom, ready to be executed, I had no time to arraign and try in open justice as much as
I wished, but was constrained, to my very great regret, to strike the blow (lascher le main)
in what has been done in this city."

This letter of Charles the Ninth, however, does not here conclude. "My lady and mother" plainly
acquaints the Earl of Worcester and Sir Francis Walsingham, that her son had never interfered
between their mistress and her subjects, and in return expects the same favour; although, by
accounts they had received from England, many ships were arming to assist their rebels at Rochelle.
"My lady and mother" advances another step, and declares that Elizabeth by treaty is bound
to assist her son against his rebellious subjects; and they expect, at least, that Elizabeth
will not only stop these armaments in all her ports, but exemplarily punish the offenders.
I resume the letter.

"And on hearing this, the said Walsingham changed colour, and appeared somewhat astonished,
as my lady and mother well perceived by his face; and on this he requested the Count of Worcester
to mention the order which he knew the queen his mistress had issued to prevent these people
from assisting those of La Rochelle; but that in England, so numerous were the seamen and others
who gained their livelihood by maritime affairs, and who would starve without the entire freedom
of the seas, that it was impossible to interdict them."

Charles the Ninth encloses the copy of a letter he had received from London, in part agreeing
with an account the ambassador had sent to the king, of an English expedition nearly ready
to sail for La Rochelle, to assist his rebellious subjects. He is still further alarmed, that
Elizabeth foments the wartegeux, and assists underhand the discontented. He urges the ambassador
to hasten to the queen, to impart these complaints in the most friendly way, as he knows the
ambassador can well do, and as, no doubt, Walsingham will have already prepared her to receive.
Charles entreats Elizabeth to prove her good faith by deeds and not by words; to act openly
on a point which admits of no dissimulation. The best proof of her friendship will be the marriage;
and the ambassador, after opening this business to her chief ministers, who the king thinks
are desirous of this projected marriage, is then "to acquaint the queen with what has passed
between her ambassadors and myself."

Such is the first letter on English affairs which Charles the Ninth despatched to his ambassador,
after an awful silence of six months, during which time La Motte Fénélon was not admitted into
the presence of Elizabeth. The apology for the massacre of St. Bartholomew comes from the king
himself, and contains several remarkable expressions, which are at least divested of that style
of bigotry and exultation we might have expected: on the contrary, this sanguinary and inconsiderate
young monarch, as he is represented, writes in a subdued and sorrowing tone, lamenting his
hard necessity, regretting he could not have recourse to the laws, and appealing to others
for his efforts to check the fury of the people, which he himself had let loose. Catharine
de Medicis, who had governed him from the tender age of eleven years, when he ascended the
throne, might unquestionably have persuaded him that a conspiracy was on the point of explosion.
Charles the Ninth died young, and his character is unfavourably viewed by the historians. In
the voluminous correspondence which I have examined, could we judge by state letters of the
character of him who subscribes them, we must form a very different notion; they are so prolix,
and so earnest, that one might conceive they were dictated by the young monarch himself!

FOOTNOTES:

  [177] All the numerous letters which I have seen of Charles the
    Ninth, now in the possession of Mr. Murray, are carefully signed by
    himself, and I have also observed postscripts written with his own
    hand: they are always countersigned by his secretary. I mention this
    circumstance, because, in the Dictionnaire Historique, it is said
    that Charles, who died young, was so given up to the amusements of
    his age, that he would not even sign his despatches, and introduced
    the custom of secretaries subscribing for the king. This voluminous
    correspondence shows the falsity of this statement. History is too
    often composed of popular tales of this stamp.

  [178] These love-letters of Alençon to our Elizabeth are noticed
    by Camden, who observes, that the queen became wearied by receiving
    so many; and to put an end to this trouble, she consented that the
    young duke should come over, conditionally, that he should not be
    offended if her suitor should return home suitless.

PREDICTION.

In a curious treatise on "Divination," or the knowledge of future events, Cicero has preserved
a complete account of the state-contrivances which were practised by the Roman government to
instil among the people those hopes and fears by which they regulated public opinion. The pagan
creed, now become obsolete and ridiculous, has occasioned this treatise to be rarely consulted;
it remains, however, as a chapter in the history of man!

To these two books of Cicero on "Divination," perhaps a third might be added, on POLITICAL
and MORAL PREDICTION. The principles which may even raise it into a science are self-evident;
they are drawn from the heart of man, and they depend on the nature and connexion of human
events! We presume we shall demonstrate the positive existence of such a faculty; a faculty
which Lord Bacon describes of "making things FUTURE and REMOTE AS PRESENT." The aruspex, the
augur, and the astrologer have vanished with their own superstitions; but the moral and the
political predictor, proceeding on principles authorised by nature and experience, has become
more skilful in his observations on the phenomena of human history; and it has often happened
that a tolerable philosopher has not made an indifferent prophet.

No great political or moral revolution has occurred which has not been accompanied by its prognostic;
and men of a philosophic cast of mind in their retirement, freed from the delusions of parties
and of sects, at once intelligent in the quicquid agunt homines, while they are withdrawn from
their conflicting interests, have rarely been confounded by the astonishment which overwhelms
those who, absorbed in active life, are the mere creatures of sensation, agitated by the shadows
of truth, the unsubstantial appearances of things! Intellectual nations are advancing in an
eternal circle of events and passions which succeed each other, and the last is necessarily
connected with its antecedent; the solitary force of some fortuitous incident only can interrupt
this concatenated progress of human affairs.

That every great event has been accompanied by a presage or prognostic, has been observed by
Lord Bacon. "The shepherds of the people should understand the prognostics of state tempests;
hollow blasts of wind seemingly at a distance, and secret swellings of the sea, often precede
a storm." Such were the prognostics discerned by the politic Bishop Williams in Charles the
First's time, who clearly foresaw and predicted the final success of the Puritanic party in
our country: attentive to his own security, he abandoned the government and sided with the
rising opposition, at the moment when such a change in public affairs was by no means apparent.[179]

In this spirit of foresight our contemplative antiquary Dugdale must have anticipated the scene
which was approaching in 1641, in the destruction of our ancient monuments in cathedral churches.
He hurried on his itinerant labours of taking draughts and transcribing inscriptions, as he
says, "to preserve them for future and better times." Posterity owes to the prescient spirit
of Dugdale the ancient Monuments of England, which bear the marks of the haste, as well as
the zeal, which have perpetuated them.

Continental writers formerly employed a fortunate expression, when they wished to have an Historia
Reformationis ante Reformationem: this history of the Reformation would have commenced at least
a century before the Reformation itself! A letter from Cardinal Julian to Pope Eugenius the
Fourth, written a century before Luther appeared, clearly predicts the Reformation and its
consequences. He observed that the minds of men were ripe for something tragical; he felt the
axe striking at the root, and the tree beginning to bend, and that his party, instead of propping
it, were hastening its fall.[180] In England, Sir Thomas More was not less prescient in his
views; for when his son Roper was observing to him that the Catholic religion, under "the Defender
of the Faith," was in a most flourishing state, the answer of More was an evidence of political
foresight--"Truth, it is, son Roper! and yet I pray God that we may not live to see the day
that we would gladly be at league and composition with heretics, to let them have their churches
quietly to themselves, so that they would be contented to let us have ours quietly to ourselves."
Whether our great chancellor predicted from a more intimate knowledge of the king's character,
or from some private circumstances which may not have been recorded for our information, of
which I have an obscure suspicion, remains to be ascertained. The minds of men of great political
sagacity were unquestionably at that moment full of obscure indications of the approaching
change; Erasmus, when at Canterbury before the tomb of Becket, observing it loaded with a vast
profusion of jewels, wished that those had been distributed among the poor, and that the shrine
had been only adorned with boughs and flowers; "For," said he, "those who have heaped up all
this mass of treasure will one day be plundered, and fall a prey to those who are in power;"--a
prediction literally fulfilled about twenty years after it was made. The unknown author of
the Visions of Piers Ploughman, who wrote in the reign of Edward the Third,[181] surprised
the world by a famous prediction of the fall of the religious houses from the hand of a king.[182]
The event was realised, two hundred years afterwards, by our Henry the Eighth. The protestant
writers have not scrupled to declare that in this instance he was divino numine afflatus. But
moral and political prediction is not inspiration; the one may be wrought out by man, the other
descends from God. The same principle which led Erasmus to predict that those who were "in
power" would destroy the rich shrines, because no other class of men in society could mate
with so mighty a body as the monks, conducted the author of Piers Ploughman to the same conclusion;
and since power only could accomplish that great purpose, he fixed on the highest as the most
likely; and thus the wise prediction was, so long after, literally accomplished!

Sir Walter Rawleigh foresaw the future consequences of the separatists and the sectaries in
the national church, and the very scene his imagination raised in 1530 has been exhibited,
to the letter of his description, two centuries after the prediction! His memorable words are--"Time
will even bring it to pass, if it were not resisted, that God would be turned out of churches
into barns, and from thence again into the fields and mountains, and under hedges--all order
of discipline and church government left to newness of opinion and men's fancies, and as many
kinds of religion spring up as there are parish churches within England." We are struck by
the profound genius of Tacitus, who clearly foresaw the calamities which so long ravaged Europe
on the fall of the Roman Empire, in a work written five hundred years before the event! In
that sublime anticipation of the future, he observed--"When the Romans shall be hunted out
from those countries which they have conquered, what will then happen? The revolted people,
freed from their master oppressor, will not be able to subsist without destroying their neighbours,
and the most cruel wars will exist among all these nations."

We are told that Solon at Athens, contemplating on the port and citadel of Munychia, suddenly
exclaimed, "How blind is man to futurity! Could the Athenians foresee what mischief this will
do their city, they would even eat it with their own teeth to get rid of it!"--a prediction
verified more than two hundred years afterwards! Thales desired to be buried in an obscure
quarter of Milesia, observing that that very spot would in time be the forum. Charlemagne,
in his old age, observing from the window of a castle a Norman descent on his coast, tears
started in the eyes of the aged monarch. He predicted that since they dared to threaten his
dominions while he was yet living, what would they do when he should be no more!--a melancholy
prediction, says De Foix, of their subsequent incursions, and of the protracted calamities
of the French nation during a whole century!

There seems to be something in minds which take in extensive views of human nature which serves
them as a kind of divination, and the consciousness of this faculty has even been asserted
by some. Cicero appeals to Atticus how he had always judged of the affairs of the republic
as a good diviner; and that its overthrow had happened as he had foreseen fourteen years before.[183]
Cicero had not only predicted what happened in his own times, but also what occurred long after,
according to the testimony of Cornelius Nepos. The philosopher, indeed, affects no secret revelation,
nor visionary second-sight; he honestly tells us that this art had been acquired merely by
study and the administration of public affairs, while he reminds his friend of several remarkable
instances of his successful predictions. "I do not divine human events by the arts practised
by the augurs, but I use other signs." Cicero then expresses himself with the guarded obscurity
of a philosopher who could not openly ridicule the prevailing superstitions; but we perfectly
comprehend the nature of his "signs" when, in the great pending event of the rival conflicts
of Pompey and of Cæsar, he shows the means he used for his purpose. "On one side I consider
the humour and genius of Cæsar, and on the other the condition and the manner of civil wars."[184]
In a word, the political diviner foretold events by their dependence on general causes, while
the moral diviner, by his experience of the personal character, anticipated the actions of
the individual. Others, too, have asserted the possession of this faculty. Du Vair, a famous
chancellor of France, imagined the faculty was intuitive with him: by his own experience he
had observed the results of this curious and obscure faculty, and at a time when the history
of the human mind was so imperfectly comprehended, it is easy to account for the apparent egotism
of this grave and dignified character. "Born," says he, "with constitutional infirmity, a mind
and body but ill adapted to be laborious, with a most treacherous memory, enjoying no gift
of nature, yet able at all times to exercise a sagacity so great that I do not know, since
I have reached manhood, that anything of importance has happened to the state, to the public,
or to myself in particular, which I had not foreseen."[185] This faculty seems to be described
by a remarkable expression employed by Thucydides in his character of Themistocles, of which
the following is given as a close translation: "By a species of sagacity peculiarly his own,
for which he was in no degree indebted either to early education or after study, he was supereminently
happy in forming a prompt judgment in matters that admitted but little time for deliberation;
at the same time that he far surpassed all in his deductions of the future from the PAST, or
was the best guesser of the future from the past."[186] Should this faculty of moral and political
prediction be ever considered as a science, we can even furnish it with a denomination; for
the writer of the Life of Sir Thomas Browne prefixed to his works, in claiming the honour of
it for that philosopher, calls it "the Stochastic," a term derived from the Greek and from
archery, meaning "to shoot at a mark." This eminent genius, it seems, often "hit the white."
Our biographer declares, that "though he were no prophet, yet in that faculty which comes nearest
to it, he excelled, i.e., the Stochastic, wherein he was seldom mistaken as to future events,
as well public as private."

We are not, indeed, inculcating the fanciful elements of an occult art. We know whence its
principles may be drawn; and we may observe how it was practised by the wisest among the ancients.
Aristotle, who collected all the curious knowledge of his times, has preserved some remarkable
opinions on the art of divination. In detailing the various subterfuges practised by the pretended
diviners of his day, he reveals the secret principle by which one of them regulated his predictions.
He frankly declared that the FUTURE being always very obscure, while the PAST was easy to know,
his predictions had never the future in view; for he decided from the PAST as it appeared in
human affairs, which, however, lie concealed from the multitude.[187] Such is the true principle
by which a philosophical historian may become a skilful diviner.

Human affairs make themselves; they grow out of one another, with slight variations; and thus
it is that they usually happen as they have happened. The necessary dependence of effects on
causes, and the similarity of human interests and human passions, are confirmed by comparative
parallels with the past. The philosophic sage of holy writ truly deduced the important principle,
that "the thing that hath been is that which shall be." The vital facts of history, deadened
by the touch of chronological antiquarianism, are restored to animation when we comprehend
the principles which necessarily terminate in certain results, and discover the characters
among mankind who are the usual actors in these scenes. The heart of man beats on the same
eternal springs; and whether he advances or retrogrades, he cannot escape out of the march
of human thought. Hence, in the most extraordinary revolutions we discover that the time and
the place only have changed; for even when events are not strictly parallel, we detect the
same conducting principles. Scipio Ammirato, one of the great Italian historians, in his curious
discourses on Tacitus, intermingles ancient examples with the modern; that, he says, all may
see how the truth of things is not altered by the changes and diversities of time. Machiavel
drew his illustrations of modern history from the ancient.

When the French Revolution recalled our attention to a similar eventful period in our own history,
the neglected volumes which preserved the public and private history of our Charles the First
and Cromwell were collected with eager curiosity. Often the scene existing before us, even
the very personages themselves, opened on us in these forgotten pages. But as the annals of
human nature did not commence with those of Charles the First, we took a still more retrograde
step, and it was discovered in this wider range, that in the various governments of Greece
and Rome, the events of those times had been only reproduced. Among them the same principles
had terminated in the same results, and the same personages had figured in the same drama.
This strikingly appeared in a little curious volume, entitled, "Essai sur l'Histoire de la
Révolution Françoise, par une Société d'Auteurs Latins," published at Paris in 1801. This "Society
of Latin Authors," who have written so inimitably the history of the French Revolution, consist
of the Roman historians themselves! By extracts ingeniously applied, the events of that melancholy
period are so appositely described, indeed so minutely narrated, that they will not fail to
surprise those who are not accustomed to detect the perpetual parallels which we meet with
in philosophical history.

Many of these crises in history are close resemblances of each other. Compare the history of
"The League" in France with that of our own civil wars. We are struck by the similar occurrences
performed by the same political characters who played their part on both those great theatres
of human action. A satirical royalist of those times has commemorated the motives, the incidents,
and the personages in the "Satire Ménippée de la Vertu du Catholicon d'Espagne;" and this famous
"Satire Ménippée" is a perfect Hudibras in prose! The writer discovers all the bitter ridicule
of Butler in his ludicrous and severe exhibition of the "Etats de Paris," while the artist
who designed the satirical prints becomes no contemptible Hogàrth. So much are these public
events alike in their general spirit and termination, that they have afforded the subject of
a printed but unpublished volume, entitled "Essai sur les Revolutions."[188] The whole work
was modelled on this principle. "It would be possible," says the eloquent writer, "to frame
a table or chart in which all the given imaginable events of the history of a people would
be reduced to a mathematical exactness." The conception is fanciful, but its foundation lies
deep in truth.

A remarkable illustration of the secret principle divulged by Aristotle, and described by Thucydides,
appears in the recent confession of a man of genius among ourselves. When Mr. Coleridge was
a political writer in the Morning Post and Courier, at a period of darkness and utter confusion,
that writer was then conducted by a tract of light, not revealed to ordinary journalists, on
the Napoleonic empire. "Of that despotism in masquerade" he decided by "the state of Rome under
the first Cæsars;" and of the Spanish American Revolution, by taking the war of the United
Provinces with Philip the Second as the groundwork of the comparison. The revolutionary character
of Cardinal de Retz, even in his youth, was detected by the sagacity of Mazarin. He then wrote
the history of the conspiracy of Fiesco, with such vehement admiration of his hero, that the
Italian politician, after its perusal, predicted that the young author would be one of the
most turbulent spirits of the age! The father of Marshal Biron, even amid the glory of his
son, discovered the cloud which, invisible to others, was to obscure it. The father, indeed,
well knew the fiery passions of his son. "Biron," said the domestic seer, "I advise thee, when
peace takes place, to go and plant cabbages in thy garden, otherwise I warn thee, thou wilt
lose thy head on the scaffold!" Lorenzo de' Medici had studied the temper of his son Piero;
for Guicciardini informs us that he had often complained to his most intimate friends that
"he foresaw the imprudence and arrogance of his son would occasion the ruin of his family."
There is a remarkable prediction of James the First of the evils likely to ensue from Laud's
violence, in a conversation given by Hacket, which the king held with Archbishop Williams.
When the king was hard pressed to promote Laud, he gave his reasons why he intended to "keep
Laud back from all place of rule and authority, because I find he hath a restless spirit, and
cannot see when matters are well, but loves to toss and change, and to bring things to a pitch
of reformation floating in his own brain, which endangers the steadfastness of that which is
in a good pass. I speak not at random; he hath made himself known to me to be such an one."
James then gives the circumstances to which he alludes; and at length, when, still pursued
by the archbishop, then the organ of Buckingham, as usual, this king's good nature too easily
yielded; he did not, however, without closing with this prediction: "Then take him to you!--but,
on my soul, you will repent it!" The future character of Cromwell was apparent to two of our
great politicians. "This coarse unpromising man," said Lord Falkland, pointing to Cromwell,
"will be the first person in the kingdom, if the nation comes to blows!" And Archbishop Williams
told Charles the First confidentially, "There was that in Cromwell which foreboded something
dangerous, and wished his majesty would either win him over to him, or get him taken off."
The Marquis of Wellesley's incomparable character of Bonaparte predicted his fall when highest
in his glory; that great statesman then poured forth the sublime language of philosophical
prophecy. "His eagerness of power is so inordinate; his jealousy of independence so fierce;
his keenness of appetite so feverish in all that touches his ambition, even in the most trifling
things, that he must plunge into dreadful difficulties. He is one of an order of minds that
by nature make for themselves great reverses."

Lord Mansfield was once asked, after the commencement of the French Revolution, when it would
end? His lordship replied, "It is an event without precedent, and therefore without prognostic."
The truth, however, is, that it had both. Our own history had furnished a precedent in the
times of Charles the First. And the prognostics were so redundant, that a volume might be collected
of passages from various writers who had predicted it. However ingenious might be a history
of the Reformation before it occurred, the evidence could not be more authentic and positive
than that of the great moral and political revolution which we have witnessed in our own days.

A prediction which Bishop Butler threw out in a sermon before the House of Lords, in 1741,
does honour to his political sagacity, as well as to his knowledge of human nature; he calculated
that the irreligious spirit would produce, some time or other, political disorders similar
to those which, in the seventeenth century, had arisen from religious fanaticism. "Is there
no danger," he observed, "that all this may raise somewhat like that levelling spirit, upon
atheistical principles, which in the last age prevailed upon enthusiastic ones? Not to speak
of the possibility that different sorts of people may unite in it upon these contrary principles!"
All this literally has been accomplished! Leibnitz, indeed, foresaw the results of those selfish,
and at length demoralizing, opinions, which began to prevail through Europe in his day. These
disorganizing principles, conducted by a political sect, who tried "to be worse than they could
be," as old Montaigne expresses it; a sort of men who have been audaciously congratulated as
"having a taste for evil;" exhibited to the astonished world the dismal catastrophe the philosopher
predicted. I shall give this remarkable passage. "I find that certain opinions approaching
those of Epicurus and Spinoza, are, little by little, insinuating themselves into the minds
of the great rulers of public affairs, who serve as the guides of others, and on whom all matters
depend; besides, these opinions are also sliding into fashionable books, and thus they are
preparing all things to that GENERAL REVOLUTION which menaces Europe; destroying those generous
sentiments of the ancients, Greek and Roman, which preferred the love of country and public
good, and the cares of posterity, to fortune and even to life. Our public spirits,[190] as
the English call them, excessively diminish, and are no more in fashion, and will be still
less while the least vicious of these men preserve only one principle, which they call honour;
a principle which only keeps them from not doing what they deem a low action, while they openly
laugh at the love of country--ridicule those who are zealous for public ends--and when a well-intentioned
man asks what will become of their posterity, they reply 'Then, as now!' But it may happen
to these persons themselves to have to endure those evils which they believe are reserved for
others. If this epidemical and intellectual disorder could be corrected, whose bad effects
are already visible, those evils might still be prevented; but if it proceeds in its growth,
Providence will correct man by the very revolution which must spring from it. Whatever may
happen indeed, all must turn out as usual for the best in general, at the end of the account,
although this cannot happen without the punishment of those who contribute even to general
good by their evil actions." The most superficial reader will hardly require a commentary on
this very remarkable passage; he must instantly perceive how Leibnitz, in the seventeenth century,
foresaw what has occurred in the eighteenth; and the prediction has been verified in the history
of the actors in the late revolution, while the result, which we have not perhaps yet had,
according to Leibnitz's own exhilarating system of optimism, is an eduction of good from evil.

A great genius, who was oppressed by malignant rivals in his own times, has been noticed by
Madame de Staël, as having left behind him an actual prophecy of the French Revolution: this
was Guibert, who, in his Commentary on Folard's Polybius, published in 1727, declared that
"a conspiracy is actually forming in Europe, by means at once so subtle and efficacious, that
I am sorry not to have come into the world thirty years later to witness its result. It must
be confessed that the sovereigns of Europe wear very bad spectacles. The proofs of it are mathematical,
if such proofs ever were, of a conspiracy." Guibert unquestionably foresaw the anti-monarchical
spirit gathering up its mighty wings, and rising over the universe! but could not judge of
the nature of the impulse which he predicted; prophesying from the ideas in his luminous intellect,
he seems to have been far more curious about, than certain of, the consequences. Rousseau even
circumstantially predicted the convulsions of modern Europe. He stood on the crisis of the
French Revolution, which he vividly foresaw, for he seriously advised the higher classes of
society to have their children taught some useful trade; a notion highly ridiculed on the first
appearance of the Emile: but at its hour the awful truth struck! He, too, foresaw the horrors
of that revolution; for he announced that Emile designed to emigrate, because, from the moral
state of the people, a virtuous revolution had become impossible.[191] The eloquence of Burke
was often oracular; and a speech of Pitt, in 1800, painted the state of Europe as it was only
realised fifteen years afterwards.

But many remarkable predictions have turned out to be false. Whenever the facts on which the
prediction is raised are altered in their situation, what was relatively true ceases to operate
as a general principle. For instance, to that striking anticipation which Rousseau formed of
the French revolution, he added, by way of note, as remarkable a prediction on MONARCHY. Je
tiens pour impossible que les grandes monarchies de l'Europe aient encore long tems à durer;
toutes ont brillé et tout état qui brille est sur son declin. The predominant anti-monarchical
spirit among our rising generation seems to hasten on the accomplishment of the prophecy; but
if an important alteration has occurred in the nature of things, we may question the result.
If by looking into the past, Rousseau found facts which sufficiently proved that nations in
the height of their splendour and corruption had closed their career by falling an easy conquest
to barbarous invaders, who annihilated the most polished people at a single blow; we now find
that no such power any longer exists in the great family of Europe: the state of the question
is therefore changed. It is now how corrupt nations will act against corrupt nations equally
enlightened? But if the citizen of Geneva drew his prediction of the extinction of monarchy
in Europe from that predilection for democracy which assumes that a republic must necessarily
produce more happiness to the people than a monarchy, then we say that the fatal experiment
was again repeated since the prediction, and the fact proved not true! The excess of democracy
inevitably terminates in a monarchical state; and were all the monarchies in Europe at present
republics, a philosopher might safely predict the restoration of monarchy!

If a prediction be raised on facts which our own prejudices induce us to infer will exist,
it must be chimerical. We have an Universal Chronicle of the Monk Carion, printed in 1532,
in which he announces that the world was about ending,[192] as well as his chronicle of it;
that the Turkish empire would not last many years; that after the death of Charles the Fifth
the empire of Germany would be torn to pieces by the Germans themselves. This monk will no
longer pass for a prophet; he belongs to that class of historians who write to humour their
own prejudices, like a certain lady-prophetess, who, in 1811, predicted that grass was to grow
in Cheapside about this time![193] The monk Carion, like others of greater name, had miscalculated
the weeks of Daniel, and wished more ill to the Mahometans than suit the Christian cabinets
of Europe to inflict on them; and, lastly, the monastic historian had no notion that it would
please Providence to prosper the heresy of Luther! Sir James Mackintosh once observed, "I am
sensible that in the field of political prediction veteran sagacity has often been deceived."
Sir James alluded to the memorable example of Harrington, who published a demonstration of
the impossibility of re-establishing monarchy in England six months before the restoration
of Charles the Second! But the author of the Oceana was a political fanatic, who ventured to
predict an event, not by other similar events, but by a theoretical principle which he had
formed, that "the balance of power depends on that of property." Harrington, in his contracted
view of human nature, had dropped out of his calculation all the stirring passions of ambition
and party, and the vacillations of the multitude. A similar error of a great genius occurs
in De Foe. "Child," says Mr. George Chalmers, "foreseeing from experience that men's conduct
must finally be decided by their principles, FORETOLD the colonial revolt. De Foe, allowing
his prejudices to obscure his sagacity, reprobated that suggestion, because he deemed interest
a more strenuous prompter than enthusiasm." The predictions of Harrington and De Foe are precisely
such as we might expect from a petty calculator, a political economist, who can see nothing
farther than immediate results; but the true philosophical predictor was Child, who had read
the past. It is probable that the American emancipation from the mother country of England
was foreseen twenty or thirty years before it occurred, though not perhaps by the administration.
Lord Orford, writing in 1754, under the ministry of the Duke of Newcastle, blames "The instructions
to the governor of New York, which seemed better calculated for the latitude of Mexico, and
for a Spanish tribunal, than for a free British settlement, and in such opulence and such haughtiness,
that suspicions had long been conceived of their meditating to throw off the dependence on
their mother-country." If this was written at the time, as the author asserts, it is a very
remarkable passage, observes the noble editor of his memoirs. The prognostics or presages of
this revolution it may now be difficult to recover; but it is evident that Child, before the
time when Lord Orford wrote this passage, predicted the separation on true and philosophical
principles.

Even when the event does not always justify the prediction, the predictor may not have been
the less correct in his principles of divination. The catastrophe of human life, and the turn
of great events, often prove accidental. Marshal Biron, whom we have noticed, might have ascended
the throne instead of the scaffold; Cromwell and De Retz might have become only the favourite
general or the minister of their sovereigns. Fortuitous events are not comprehended in the
reach of human prescience; such must be consigned to those vulgar superstitions which presume
to discover the issue of human events, without pretending to any human knowledge. There is
nothing supernatural in the prescience of the philosopher.

Sometimes predictions have been condemned as false ones, which, when scrutinised, we can scarcely
deem to have failed: they may have been accomplished, and they may again revolve on us. In
1749 Dr. Hartley published his "Observations on Man," and predicted the fall of the existing
governments and hierarchies in two simple propositions; among others--

Prop. 81. It is probable that all the civil governments will be overturned.

Prop. 82. It is probable that the present forms of church-government will be dissolved.

Many were alarmed at these predicted falls of church and state. Lady Charlotte Wentworth asked
Hartley when these terrible things would happen. The answer of the predictor was not less awful:
"I am an old man, and shall not live to see them; but you are a young woman, and probably will
see them." In the subsequent revolutions of America and of France, and perhaps now of Spain,
we can hardly deny that these predictions had failed. A fortuitous event has once more thrown
back Europe into its old corners: but we still revolve in a circle, and what is now dark and
remote may again come round, when time has performed its great cycle. There was a prophetical
passage in Hooker's Ecclesiastical Polity regarding the church which long occupied the speculations
of its expounders. Hooker indeed seemed to have done what no predictor of events should do;
he fixed on the period of its accomplishment. In 1597 he declared that it would "peradventure
fall out to be threescore and ten years, or if strength do awe, into fourscore." Those who
had outlived the revolution in 1641, when the long parliament pulled down the ecclesiastical
establishment, and sold the church-lands--a circumstance which Hooker had contemplated--and
were afterwards returned to their places on the Restoration, imagined that the prediction had
not yet been completed, and were looking with great anxiety towards the year 1677, for the
close of this extraordinary prediction! When Bishop Barlow, in 1675, was consulted on it, he
endeavoured to dissipate the panic, by referring to an old historian, who had reproached our
nation for their proneness to prophecies![194] The prediction of the venerable Hooker in truth
had been fully accomplished, and the event had occurred without Bishop Barlow having recurred
to it; so easy it seems to forget what we dislike to remember! The period of time was too literally
taken, and seems to have been only the figurative expression of man's age in scriptural language
which Hooker had employed; but no one will now deny that this prescient sage had profoundly
foreseen the results of that rising party, whose designs on church and state were clearly depicted
in his own luminous view.

The philosophical predictor, in foretelling a crisis from the appearance of things, will not
rashly assign the period of time; for the crisis which he anticipates is calculated on by that
inevitable march of events which generate each other in human affairs; but the period is always
dubious, being either retarded or accelerated by circumstances of a nature incapable of entering
into this moral arithmetic. It is probable that a revolution similar to that of France would
have occurred in this country, had it not been counteracted by the genius of Pitt. In 1618
it was easy to foretell by the political prognostic that a mighty war throughout Europe must
necessarily occur. At that moment, observes Bayle, the house of Austria aimed at a universal
monarchy; the consequent domineering spirit of the ministers of the Emperor and the King of
Spain, combined with their determination to exterminate the new religion, excited a reaction
to this imperial despotism; public opinion had been suppressed, till every people grew impatient;
while their sovereigns, influenced by national feeling, were combining against Austria. But
Austria was a vast military power, and her generals were the first of their class. The efforts
of Europe would then be often repulsed! This state of affairs prognosticated a long war!--and
when at length it broke out it lasted thirty years! The approach and the duration of the war
might have been predicted; but the period of its termination could not have been foreseen.

There is, however, a spirit of political vaticination which presumes to pass beyond the boundaries
of human prescience; it has been often ascribed to the highest source of inspiration by enthusiasts;
but since "the language of prophecy" has ceased, such pretensions are not less impious than
they are unphilosophical. Knox the reformer possessed an extraordinary portion of this awful
prophetic confidence: he appears to have predicted several remarkable events, and the fates
of some persons. We are told that, condemned to a galley at Rochelle, he predicted that "within
two or three years he should preach the gospel at Saint Giles's in Edinburgh;" an improbable
event, which happened. Of Mary and Darnley, he pronounced that, "as the king, for the queen's
pleasure, had gone to mass, the Lord, in his justice, would make her the instrument of his
overthrow." Other striking predictions of the deaths of Thomas Maitland, and of Kirkaldy of
Grange, and the warning he solemnly gave to the Regent Murray not to go to Linlithgow, where
he was assassinated, occasioned a barbarous people to imagine that the prophet Knox had received
an immediate communication from Heaven. A Spanish friar and almanac-maker predicted, in clear
and precise words, the death of Henry the Fourth of France; and Pieresc, though he had no faith
in the vain science of astrology, yet, alarmed at whatever menaced the life of a beloved monarch,
consulted with some of the king's friends, and had the Spanish almanac laid before his majesty.
That high-spirited monarch thanked them for their solicitude, but utterly slighted the prediction:
the event occurred, and in the following year the Spanish friar spread his own fame in a new
almanac. I have been occasionally struck at the Jeremiads of honest George Withers, the vaticinating
poet of our civil wars: some of his works afford many solemn predictions. We may account for
many predictions of this class without the intervention of any supernatural agency. Among the
busy spirits of a revolutionary age, the heads of a party, such as Knox, have frequently secret
communications with spies or with friends. In a constant source of concealed information, a
shrewd, confident, and enthusiastic temper will find ample matter for mysterious prescience.
Knox exercised that deep sagacity which took in the most enlarged views of the future, as appears
by his Machiavelian foresight on the barbarous destruction of the monasteries and the cathedrals--"The
best way to keep the rooks from returning, is to pull down their nests." In the case of the
prediction of the death of Henry the Fourth, by the Spanish friar, it resulted either from
his being acquainted with the plot, or from his being made an instrument for their purpose
by those who were. It appears that rumours of Henry's assassination were rife in Spain and
Italy before the event occurred. Such vaticinators as George Withers will always rise in those
disturbed times which his own prosaic metre has forcibly depicted:--

  It may be on that darkness, which they find
  Within their hearts, a sudden light hath shin'd,
  Making reflections of SOME THINGS TO COME,
  Which leave within them musings troublesome
  To their weak spirits; or too intricate
  For them to put in order, and relate.
  They act as men in ecstasies have done--
  Striving their cloudy visions to declare--
  And I, perhaps, among these may be one
  That was let loose for service to be done:
  I blunder out what worldly-prudent men
  Count madnesse.--P. 7.[195]

Separating human prediction from inspired prophecy, we only ascribe to the faculties of man
that acquired prescience which we have demonstrated that some great minds have unquestionably
exercised. We have discovered its principles in the necessary dependence of effects on general
causes, and we have shown that, impelled by the same motives, and circumscribed by the same
passions, all human affairs revolve in a circle; and we have opened the true source of this
yet imperfect science of moral and political prediction, in an intimate but a discriminative
knowledge of the PAST.

Authority is sacred, when experience affords parallels and analogies. If much which may overwhelm
when it shall happen can be foreseen, the prescient statesman and moralist may provide defensive
measures to break the waters, whose streams they cannot always direct; and the venerable Hooker
has profoundly observed, that "the best things have been overthrown, not so much by puissance
and might of adversaries, as through defect of council in those that should have upheld and
defended the same."[196]

The philosophy of history blends the past with the present, and combines the present with the
future: each is but a portion of the other! The actual state of a thing is necessarily determined
by its antecedent, and thus progressively through the chain of human existence; while "the
present is always full of the future," as Leibnitz has happily expressed the idea.

A new and beautiful light is thus thrown over the annals of mankind, by the analogies and the
parallels of different ages in succession. How the seventeenth century has influenced the eighteenth;
and the results of the nineteenth as they shall appear in the twentieth, might open a source
of predictions, to which, however difficult it might be to affix their dates, there would be
none in exploring into causes, and tracing their inevitable effects.

The multitude live only among the shadows of things in the appearances of the PRESENT; the
learned, busied with the PAST, can only trace whence and how all comes; but he who is one of
the people, and one of the learned, the true philosopher, views the natural tendency and terminations
which are preparing for the FUTURE!

FOOTNOTES:

  [179] See Rushworth, vol. i. p. 420. His language was decisive.

  [180] This letter is in the works of Æneas Sylvius; a copious
    extract is given by Bossuet, in his "Variations." See also Mosheim,
    Cent. xiii. part ii. chap. 2, note m.

  [181] Though it cannot be positively asserted it is generally
    believed that the author was Robert Longlande, a monk of Malvern.
    See introduction to Wright's edition of "The Vision." The latter
    part of the year 1362 is believed to be the time of its composition.

  [182] The passage is so remarkable as to be worth giving here, for
    the immediate reference of such readers as may not have ready access
    to the original. We modernize the spelling from Mr. Wright's
    edition:--

      But there shall come a king,
      And confess you religious,
      And award you as the Bible telleth
      For breaking of your rule.

         *       *       *       *       *

      And then shall the Abbot of Abingdon
      And all his issue for ever,
      Have a knock of a king,
      And incurable the wound.

  [183] Ep. ad Att. Lib. x. Ep. 4.

  [184] Ep. ad Att. Lib. vi. Ep. 6.

  [185] This remarkable confession I find in Menage's "Observations
    sur la Langue Françoise," Part II. p. 110.

  [186] [Greek: Okeia gar xunesei, kai oute promathôn es autên ouden,
    out epimathôn tôn te parachrêma di elachistês boulês kratistos
    gnômôn, kai tôn mellontôn epipleiston tou genêsomenou aristos
    eikastês].--Thucydides, lib. i.

  [187] Arist. Rhet. lib. vii. c. 5.

  [188] This work was printed in London as a first volume, but
    remained unpublished. This singularly curious production was
    suppressed, but reprinted at Paris. It has suffered the most cruel
    mutilations. I read with surprise and instruction the single copy
    which I was assured was the only one saved from the havoc of the
    entire edition. The writer was the celebrated Chateaubriand. 1807. Vol. i.
    p. 214.

  [190] Public spirit, and public spirits, were about the year
    1700 household words with us. Leibnitz was struck by their
    significance, but it might now puzzle us to find synonyms, or even
    to explain the very terms themselves.

  [191] This extraordinary passage is at the close of the third book
    of Emile, to which I must refer the reader. It is curious,
    however, to observe, that in 1760 Rousseau poured forth the
    following awful predictions, which were considered quite
    absurd:--"Vous vous fiez à l'ordre actuel de la société, sans songer
    que cet ordre est sujet à des révolutions inévitables--le grand
    devient petit, le riche devient pauvre, le monarque devient
    sujet--nous approchons l'état de crise et du siècle des
    révolutions. Que fera donc dans la bassesse ce satrape que vous
    n'aurez élevé que pour la grandeur? Que fera dans la pauvreté, ce
    publicain qui ne sçait vivre que d'or? Que fera, dépourvu de tout,
    ce fastueux imbecille qui ne sait point user de lui-même?" &c. &c.

  [192] This prediction of the end of the world is one of the most
    popular hallucinations, warmly received by many whenever it is
    promulgated. It had the most marked effect when the cycle of a
    thousand years after the birth of Christ was approaching completion;
    and the world was assured that was the limit of its present state.
    Numerous acts of piety were performed. Churches were built,
    religious houses founded, and asceticism became the order of the
    day, until the dreaded year was completed without the accompaniment
    of the supernatural horrors so generally feared; the world soon
    relapsed into forgetfulness, and went on as before. Very many
    prophecies have since been promulgated; and in defiance of such
    repeated failures are still occasionally indulged in by persons from
    whom better things might be expected. Richard Brothers, in the last
    century, and more than one reverend gentleman in the present one,
    have been bold enough to fix an exact time for the event: but it has
    passed as quietly as the thousandth anniversary noted above.

  [193] One of the most effective prophecies against London, and which
    frightened for the time a very large number of its inhabitants, was
    that given out in the spring of 1750, after a slight shock of an
    earthquake was felt in London, and it was prophesied that another
    should occur which would destroy the town and all its inhabitants.
    All the roads were thronged with persons flying to the country a day
    or two before the threatened event; and they were all unmercifully
    ridiculed when the day passed over quietly. Jokers who were out late
    amused themselves by bawling in the watchmen's voice, "Past four
    o'clock, and a dreadful earthquake!" A pamphlet purporting to be "a
    full and true account" of this earthquake which never happened, was
    "printed for Tim Tremor, in Fleet-street, 1750," and made the
    vehicle for much personal satire. Thus it is stated that the
    "Commissioners of Westminster-bridge have ordered this calamity to
    be entered in their books, as a glorious excuse for the next sinking
    pier;" and that the town received some comfort upon hearing that
    "the Inns of Court were all sunk, and several orders were given that
    no one should assist in bringing any one lawyer above ground."

  [194] An eye-witness of the great fire of London has noted the
    difficulty of obtaining effective assistance in endeavouring to stay
    its progress, owing to the superstition which seized many persons,
    because a prophecy of Mother Shipton's was quoted to show that
    London was doomed to hopeless and entire destruction.

  [195] "A Dark Lantherne, offering a dim Discovery, intermixed with
    Remembrances, Predictions, &c. 1652."

  [196] Hooker wrote this about 1560, and he wrote before the Siècle
    des Révolutions had begun, even among ourselves! He penetrated into
    this important principle merely by the force of his own meditation.
    At this moment, after more practical experience in political
    revolutions, a very intelligent French writer, in a pamphlet,
    entitled "M. da Villèle," says, "Experience proclaims a great
    truth--namely, that revolutions themselves cannot succeed, except
    when they are favoured by a portion of the GOVERNMENT." He
    illustrates the axiom by the different revolutions which have
    occurred in his nation within these thirty years. It is the same
    truth, traced to its source by another road.

DREAMS AT THE DAWN OF PHILOSOPHY.

Modern philosophy, theoretical or experimental, only amuses while the action of discovery is
suspended or advances; the interest ceases with the inquirer when the catastrophe is ascertained,
as in the romance whose dénouement turns on a mysterious incident, which, once unfolded, all
future agitation ceases. But in the true infancy of science, philosophers were as imaginative
a race as poets: marvels and portents, undemonstrable and undefinable, with occult fancies,
perpetually beginning and never ending, were delightful as the shifting cantos of Ariosto.
Then science entranced the eye by its thaumaturgy; when they looked through an optic tube,
they believed they were looking into futurity; or, starting at some shadow darkening the glassy
globe, beheld the absent person; while the mechanical inventions of art were toys and tricks,
with sometimes an automaton, which frightened them with life.

The earlier votaries of modern philosophy only witnessed, as Gaffarel calls his collection,
"Unheard-of Curiosities." This state of the marvellous, of which we are now for ever deprived,
prevailed among the philosophers and the virtuosi in Europe, and with ourselves, long after
the establishment of the Royal Society. Philosophy then depended mainly on authority--a single
one, however, was sufficient: so that when this had been repeated by fifty others, they had
the authority of fifty honest men--whoever the first man might have been! They were then a
blissful race of children, rambling here and there in a golden age of innocence and ignorance,
where at every step each gifted discoverer whispered to the few, some half-concealed secret
of nature, or played with some toy of art; some invention which with great difficulty performed
what, without it, might have been done with great ease. The cabinets of the lovers of mechanical
arts formed enchanted apartments, where the admirers feared to stir or look about them; while
the philosophers themselves half imagined they were the very thaumaturgi, for which the world
gave them too much credit, at least for their quiet! Would we run after the shadows in this
gleaming land of moonshine, or sport with these children in the fresh morning of science, ere
Aurora had scarcely peeped on the hills, we must enter into their feelings, view with their
eyes, and believe all they confide to us; and out of these bundles of dreams sometimes pick
out one or two for our own dreaming. They are the fairy tales and the Arabian Nights' entertainments
of science. But if the reader is stubbornly mathematical and logical, he will only be holding
up a great torch against the muslin curtain, upon which the fantastic shadows playing upon
it must vanish at the instant. It is an amusement which can only take place by carefully keeping
himself in the dark.[197]

What a subject, were I to enter on it, would be the narratives of magical writers! These precious
volumes have been so constantly wasted by the profane, that now a book of real magic requires
some to find it, as well as a great magician to use it. Albertus Magnus, or Albert the Great,
as he is erroneously styled--for this sage only derived this enviable epithet from his surname
De Groot, as did Hugo Grotius--this sage, in his "Admirable Secrets," delivers his opinion
that these books of magic should be most preciously preserved; for, he prophetically added,
the time is arriving when they would be understood! It seems they were not intelligible in
the thirteenth century; but if Albertus has not miscalculated, in the present day they may
be! Magical terms with talismanic figures may yet conceal many a secret; gunpowder came down
to us in a sort of anagram, and the kaleidoscope, with all its interminable multiplications
of forms, lay at hand for two centuries in Baptista Porta's "Natural Magic." The abbot Trithemius,
in a confidential letter, happened to call himself a magician, perhaps at the moment he thought
himself one, and sent three or four leaves stuffed with the names of devils and with their
evocations. At the death of his friend these leaves fell into the unworthy hands of the prior,
who was so frightened on the first glance at the diabolical nomenclature, that he raised the
country against the abbot, and Trithemius was nearly a lost man! Yet, after all, this evocation
of devils has reached us in his "Steganographia," and proves to be only one of this ingenious
abbot's polygraphic attempts at secret writing; for he had flattered himself that he had invented
a mode of concealing his thoughts from all the world, while he communicated them to a friend.
Roger Bacon promised to raise thunder and lightning, and disperse clouds by dissolving them
into rain. The first magical process has been obtained by Franklin; and the other, of far more
use to our agriculturists, may perchance be found lurking in some corner which has been overlooked
in the "Opus majus" of our "Doctor mirabilis." Do we laugh at their magical works of art? Are
we ourselves such indifferent artists? Cornelius Agrippa, before he wrote his "Vanity of the
Arts and Sciences," intended to reduce into a system and method the secret of communicating
with spirits and demons.[198] On good authority, that of Porphyrius, Psellus, Plotinus, Jamblichus--and
on better, were it necessary to allege it--he was well assured that the upper regions of the
air swarmed with what the Greeks called dæmones, just as our lower atmosphere is full of birds,
our waters of fish, and our earth of insects. Yet this occult philosopher, who knew perfectly
eight languages, and married two wives, with whom he had never exchanged a harsh word in any
of them, was everywhere avoided as having by his side, for his companion, a personage no less
than a demon! This was a great black dog, whom he suffered to stretch himself out among his
magical manuscripts, or lie on his bed, often kissing and patting him, and feeding him on choice
morsels. Yet for this would Paulus Jovius and all the world have had him put to the ordeal
of fire and fagot! The truth was afterwards boldly asserted by Wierus, his learned domestic,
who believed that his master's dog was really nothing more than what he appeared! "I believe,"
says he, "that he was a real natural dog; he was indeed black, but of a moderate size, and
I have often led him by a string, and called him by the French name Agrippa had given him,
Monsieur! and he had a female who was called Mademoiselle! I wonder how authors of such great
character should write so absurdly on his vanishing at his death, nobody knows how!" But as
it is probable that Monsieur and Mademoiselle must have generated some puppy demons, Wierus
ought to have been more circumstantial.

Albertus Magnus, for thirty years, had never ceased working at a man of brass, and had cast
together the qualities of his materials under certain constellations, which threw such a spirit
into his man of brass, that it was reported his growth was visible; his feet, legs, thighs,
shoulders, neck, and head, expanded, and made the city of Cologne uneasy at possessing one
citizen too mighty for them all. This man of brass, when he reached his maturity, was so loquacious,
that Albert's master, the great scholastic Thomas Aquinas, one day, tired of his babble, and
declaring it was a devil, or devilish, with his staff knocked the head off; and, what was extraordinary,
this brazen man, like any human being thus effectually silenced, "word never spake more." This
incident is equally historical and authentic; though whether heads of brass can speak, and
even prophesy, was indeed a subject of profound inquiry even at a later period.[199] Naudé,
who never questioned their vocal powers, and yet was puzzled concerning the nature of this
new species of animal, has no doubt most judiciously stated the question, Whether these speaking
brazen heads had a sensitive and reasoning nature, or whether demons spoke in them? But brass
has not the faculty of providing its own nourishment, as we see in plants, and therefore they
were not sensitive; and as for the act of reasoning, these brazen heads presumed to know nothing
but the future: with the past and the present they seemed totally unacquainted, so that their
memory and their observation were very limited; and as for the future, that is always doubtful
and obscure--even to heads of brass! This learned man then infers that "These brazen heads
could have no reasoning faculties, for nothing altered their nature; they said what they had
to say, which no one could contradict; and having said their say, you might have broken the
head for anything more that you could have got out of it. Had they had any life in them, would
they not have moved as well as spoken? Life itself is but motion, but they had no lungs, no
spleen; and, in fact, though they spoke, they had no tongue. Was a devil in them? I think not.
Yet why should men have taken all this trouble to make, not a man, but a trumpet?"

Our profound philosopher was right not to agitate the question whether these brazen heads had
ever spoken. Why should not a man of brass speak, since a doll can whisper, a statue play chess,[200]
and brass ducks have performed the whole process of digestion?[201] Another magical invention
has been ridiculed with equal reason. A magician was annoyed, as philosophers still are, by
passengers in the street; and he, particularly so, by having horses led to drink under his
window. He made a magical horse of wood, according to one of the books of Hermes, which perfectly
answered its purpose, by frightening away the horses, or rather the grooms! the wooden horse,
no doubt, gave some palpable kick. The same magical story might have been told of Dr. Franklin,
who finding that under his window the passengers had discovered a spot which they made too
convenient for themselves, he charged it with his newly-discovered electrical fire. After a
few remarkable incidents had occurred, which at a former period would have lodged the great
discoverer of electricity in the Inquisition, the modern magician succeeded just as well as
the ancient, who had the advantage of conning over the books of Hermes. Instead of ridiculing
these works of magic, let us rather become magicians ourselves!

The works of the ancient alchemists have afforded numberless discoveries to modern chemists:
nor is even their grand operation despaired of. If they have of late not been so renowned,
this has arisen from a want of what Ashmole calls "apertness;" a qualification early inculcated
among these illuminated sages. We find authentic accounts of some who have lived three centuries,
with tolerable complexions, possessed of nothing but a crucible and a bellows! but they were
so unnecessarily mysterious, that whenever such a person was discovered, he was sure in an
instant to disappear, and was never afterwards heard of.

In the "Liber Patris Sapientiæ" this selfish cautiousness is all along impressed on the student
for the accomplishment of the great mystery. In the commentary on this precious work of the
alchemist Norton, who counsels,

  Be thou in a place secret, by thyself alone,
  That no man see or hear what thou shalt say or done.
  Trust not thy friend too much wheresoe'er thou go,
  For he thou trustest best, sometyme may be thy foe;

Ashmole observes, that "Norton gives exceeding good advice to the student in this science where
he bids him be secret in the carrying on of his studies and operations, and not to let any
one know of his undertakings but his good angel and himself:" and such a close and retired
breast had Norton's master, who,

  When men disputed of colours of the rose,
  He would not speak, but kept himself full close!

We regret that by each leaving all his knowledge to "his good angel and himself," it has happened
that "the good angels" have kept it all to themselves!

It cannot, however, be denied, that if they could not always extract gold out of lead, they
sometimes succeeded in washing away the pimples on ladies' faces, notwithstanding that Sir
Kenelm Digby poisoned his most beautiful lady, because, as Sancho would have said, he was one
of those who would "have his bread whiter than the finest wheaten." Van Helmont, who could
not succeed in discovering the true elixir of life, however hit on the spirit of hartshorn,
which for a good while he considered was the wonderful elixir itself, restoring to life persons
who seemed to have lost it. And though this delightful enthusiast could not raise a ghost,
yet he thought he had; for he raised something aerial from spa-water, which mistaking for a
ghost, he gave it that very name; a name which we still retain in gas, from the German geist,
or ghost! Paracelsus carried the tiny spirits about him in the hilt of his great sword! Having
first discovered the qualities of laudanum, this illustrious quack made use of it as an universal
remedy, and distributed it in the form of pills, which he carried in the basket-hilt of his
sword; the operations he performed were as rapid as they seemed magical. Doubtless we have
lost some inconceivable secrets by some unexpected occurrences, which the secret itself it
would seem ought to have prevented taking place. When a philosopher had discovered the art
of prolonging life to an indefinite period, it is most provoking to find that he should have
allowed himself to die at an early age! We have a very authentic history from Sir Kenelm Digby
himself, that when he went in disguise to visit Descartes at his retirement at Egmond, lamenting
the brevity of life, which hindered philosophers getting on in their studies, the French philosopher
assured him that "he had considered that matter; to render a man immortal was what he could
not promise, but that he was very sure it was possible to lengthen out his life to the period
of the patriarchs." And when his death was announced to the world, the Abbé Picot, an ardent
disciple, for a long time would not believe it possible; and at length insisted, that if it
had occurred, it must have been owing to some mistake of the philosopher's.

The late Holcroft, Loutherbourg, and Cosway, imagined that they should escape the vulgar era
of scriptural life by reorganizing their old bones, and moistening their dry marrow; their
new principles of vitality were supposed by them to be found in the powers of the mind; this
seemed more reasonable, but proved to be as little efficacious as those other philosophers,
who imagine they have detected the hidden principle of life in the eels frisking in vinegar,
and allude to "the bookbinder who creates the book-worm!"

Paracelsus has revealed to us one of the grandest secrets of nature. When the world began to
dispute on the very existence of the elementary folk, it was then that he boldly offered to
give birth to a fairy, and has sent down to posterity the recipe. He describes the impurity
which is to be transmuted into such purity, the gross elements of a delicate fairy, which,
fixed in a phial, placed in fuming dung, will in due time settle into a full-grown fairy, bursting
through its vitreous prison--on the vivifying principle by which the ancient Egyptians hatched
their eggs in ovens. I recollect, at Dr. Farmer's sale, the leaf which preserved this recipe
for making a fairy, forcibly folded down by the learned commentator; from which we must infer
the credit he gave to the experiment. There was a greatness of mind in Paracelsus, who, having
furnished a recipe to make a fairy, had the delicacy to refrain from its formation. Even Baptista
Porta, one of the most enlightened philosophers, does not deny the possibility of engendering
creatures which, "at their full growth, shall not exceed the size of a mouse;" but he adds,
"they are only pretty little dogs to play with." Were these akin to the fairies of Paracelsus?[202]

They were well convinced of the existence of such elemental beings; frequent accidents in mines
showed the potency of the metallic spirits, which so tormented the workmen in some of the German
mines by blindness, giddiness, and sudden sickness, that they have been obliged to abandon
mines well known to be rich in silver. A metallic spirit at one sweep annihilated twelve miners,
who were all found dead together. The fact was unquestionable; and the safety-lamp was undiscovered.

Never was a philosophical imagination more beautiful than that exquisite Palingenesis, as it
has been termed from the Greek, or a regeneration: or rather the apparitions of animals and
plants. Schott, Kircher, Gaffarel, Borelli, Digby, and the whole of that admirable school,
discovered in the ashes of plants their primitive forms, which were again raised up by the
force of heat. Nothing, they say, perishes in nature; all is but a continuation, or a revival.
The semina of resurrection are concealed in extinct bodies, as in the blood of man; the ashes
of roses will again revive into roses, though smaller and paler than if they had been planted;
unsubstantial and unodoriferous, they are not roses which grow on rose-trees, but their delicate
apparitions; and, like apparitions, they are seen but for a moment! The process of the Palingenesis,
this picture of immortality, is described. These philosophers having burnt a flower, by calcination
disengaged the salts from its ashes, and deposited them in a glass phial; a chemical mixture
acted on it, till in the fermentation they assumed a bluish and a spectral hue. This dust,
thus excited by heat, shoots upwards into its primitive forms; by sympathy the parts unite,
and while each is returning to its destined place, we see distinctly the stalk, the leaves,
and the flower arise; it is the pale spectre of a flower coming slowly forth from its ashes.
The heat passes away, the magical scene declines, till the whole matter again precipitates
itself into the chaos at the bottom. This vegetable phoenix lies thus concealed in its cold
ashes till the presence of heat produces this resurrection--in its absence it returns to its
death. Thus the dead naturally revive; and a corpse may give out its shadowy re-animation when
not too deeply buried in the earth. Bodies corrupted in their graves have risen, particularly
the murdered; for murderers are apt to bury their victims in a slight and hasty manner. Their
salts, exhaled in vapour by means of their fermentation, have arranged themselves on the surface
of the earth, and formed those phantoms, which at night have often terrified the passing spectator,
as authentic history witnesses. They have opened the graves of the phantom, and discovered
the bleeding corpse beneath; hence it is astonishing how many ghosts may be seen at night,
after a recent battle, standing over their corpses! On the same principle, my old philosopher
Gaffarel conjectures on the raining of frogs; but these frogs, we must conceive, can only be
the ghosts of frogs; and Gaffarel himself has modestly opened this fact by a "peradventure."
A more satisfactory origin of ghosts modern philosophy has not afforded.

And who does not believe in the existence of ghosts? for, as Dr. More forcibly says--"That
there should be so universal a fame and fear of that which never was, nor is, nor can be ever
in the world, is to me the greatest miracle of all. If there had not been, at some time or
other, true miracles, it had not been so easy to impose on the people by false. The alchemist
would never go about to sophisticate metals to pass them off for true gold and silver, unless
that such a thing was acknowledged as true gold and silver in the world."

The pharmacopoeia of those times combined more of morals with medicine than our own. They discovered
that the agate rendered a man eloquent and even witty; a laurel leaf placed on the centre of
the skull fortified the memory; the brains of fowls and birds of swift wing wonderfully helped
the imagination. All such specifics have now disappeared, and have greatly reduced the chances
of an invalid recovering that which perhaps he never possessed. Lentils and rape-seed were
a certain cure for the small-pox, and very obviously--their grains resembling the spots of
this disease. They discovered that those who lived on "fair" plants became fair, those on fruitful
ones were never barren: on the principle that Hercules acquired his mighty strength by feeding
on the marrow of lions. But their talismans, provided they were genuine, seem to have been
wonderfully operative; and had we the same confidence, and melted down the guineas we give
physicians, engraving on them talismanic figures, I would answer for the good effects of the
experiment. Naudé, indeed, has utterly ridiculed the occult virtues of talismans, in his defence
of Virgil, accused of being a magician: the poet, it seems, cast into a well a talisman of
a horse-leech, graven on a plate of gold, to drive away the great number of horse-leeches which
infested Naples. Naudé positively denies that talismans ever possessed any such occult virtues:
Gaffarel regrets that so judicious a man as Naudé should have gone this length, giving the
lie to so many authentic authors; and Naudé's paradox is indeed as strange as his denial; he
suspects the thing is not true because it is so generally told! "It leads one to suspect,"
says he, "as animals are said to have been driven away from so many places by these talismans,
whether they were ever driven from any one place." Gaffarel, suppressing by his good temper
his indignant feelings at such reasoning, turns the paradox on its maker:--"As if, because
of the great number of battles that Hannibal is reported to have fought with the Romans, we
might not, by the same reason, doubt whether he fought any one with them." The reader must
be aware that the strength of the argument lies entirely with the firm believer in talismans.
Gaffarel, indeed, who passed his days in collecting "Curiosités inouïes," is a most authentic
historian of unparalleled events, even in his own times! Such as that heavy rain in Poitou,
which showered down "petites bestioles," little creatures like bishops with their mitres, and
monks with their capuchins over their heads; it is true, afterwards they all turned into butterflies!

The museums, the cabinets, and the inventions of our early virtuosi were the baby-houses of
philosophers. Baptista Porta, Bishop Wilkins, and old Ashmole, were they now living, had been
enrolled among the quiet members of "The Society of Arts," instead of flying in the air, collecting
"a wing of the phoenix, as tradition goes;" or catching the disjointed syllables of an old
doting astrologer. But these early dilettanti had not derived the same pleasure from the useful
inventions of the aforesaid "Society of Arts" as they received from what Cornelius Agrippa,
in a fit of spleen, calls "things vain and superfluous, invented to no other end but for pomp
and idle pleasure." Baptista Porta was more skilful in the mysteries of art and nature than
any man in his day. Having founded the Academy degli Oziosi, he held an inferior association
in his own house, called di Secreti, where none was admitted but those elect who had communicated
some secret; for, in the early period of modern art and science, the slightest novelty became
a secret, not to be confided to the uninitiated. Porta was unquestionably a fine genius, as
his works still show; but it was his misfortune that he attributed his own penetrating sagacity
to his skill in the art of divination. He considered himself a prognosticator; and, what was
more unfortunate, some eminent persons really thought he was. Predictions and secrets are harmless,
provided they are not believed: but his Holiness finding Porta's were, warned him that magical
sciences were great hindrances to the study of the Bible, and paid him the compliment to forbid
his prophesying. Porta's genius was now limited to astonish, and sometimes to terrify, the
more ingenious part of I Secreti. On entering his cabinet, some phantom of an attendant was
sure to be hovering in the air, moving as he who entered moved; or he observed in some mirror
that his face was twisted on the wrong side of his shoulders, and did not quite think that
all was right when he clapped his hand on it; or passing through a darkened apartment a magical
landscape burst on him, with human beings in motion, the boughs of trees bending, and the very
clouds passing over the sun; or sometimes banquets, battles, and hunting-parties were in the
same apartment. "All these spectacles my friends have witnessed!" exclaims the self-delighted
Baptista Porta. When his friends drank wine out of the same cup which he had used, they were
mortified with wonder; for he drank wine, and they only water! or on a summer's day, when all
complained of the sirocco, he would freeze his guests with cold air in the room; or, on a sudden,
let off a flying dragon to sail along with a cracker in its tail, and a cat tied on his back;
shrill was the sound, and awful was the concussion; so that it required strong nerves, in an
age of apparitions and devils, to meet this great philosopher when in his best humour. Albertus
Magnus entertained the Earl of Holland, as that earl passed through Cologne, in a severe winter,
with a warm summer scene, luxuriant in fruits and flowers. The fact is related by Trithemius--and
this magical scene connected with his vocal head, and his books De Secretis Mulierum, and De
Mirabilibus, confirmed the accusations they raised against the great Albert for being a magician.
His apologist, Theophilus Raynaud, is driven so hard to defend Albertus, that he at once asserts
the winter changed to summer and the speaking head to be two infamous flams! He will not believe
these authenticated facts, although he credits a miracle which proves the sanctity of Albertus,--after
three centuries, the body of Albert the Great remained as sweet as ever!

"Whether such enchauntments," as old Mandeville cautiously observeth, two centuries preceding
the days of Porta, were "by craft or by nygromancye, I wot nere." But that they were not unknown
to Chaucer, appears in his "Frankelein's Tale," where, minutely describing them, he communicates
the same pleasure he must himself have received from the ocular illusions of "the Tregetoure,"
or "Jogelour." Chaucer ascribes the miracle to a "naturall magique!" in which, however, it
was as unsettled whether the "Prince of Darkness" was a party concerned.

  For I am siker that there be sciences
  By which men maken divers apparences
  Swiche as thise subtil tregetoures play.
  For oft at festes have I wel herd say
  That tregetoures, within an halle large,
  Have made come in a water and a barge,
  And in the halle rowen up and doun.
  Sometime hath semed come a grim leoun,
  And sometime floures spring as in a mede,
  Sometime a vine and grapes white and rede,
  Sometime a castel al of lime and ston,
  And whan hem liketh voideth it anon:
  Thus semeth it to every mannes sight.

Bishop Wilkins's museum was visited by Evelyn, who describes the sort of curiosities which
occupied and amused the children of science. "Here, too, there was a hollow statue, which gave
a voice, and uttered words by a long concealed pipe that went to its mouth, whilst one speaks
through it at a good distance:" a circumstance which, perhaps, they were not then aware revealed
the whole mystery of the ancient oracles, which they attributed to demons rather than to tubes,
pulleys, and wheels. The learned Charles Patin, in his scientific travels, records, among other
valuable productions of art, a cherry-stone, on which were engraven about a dozen and a half
of portraits! Even the greatest of human geniuses, Leonardo da Vinci, to attract the royal
patronage, created a lion which ran before the French monarch, dropping fleurs de lis from
its shaggy breast. And another philosopher who had a spinnet which played and stopped at command,
might have made a revolution in the arts and sciences, had the half-stifled child that was
concealed in it not been forced, unluckily, to crawl into daylight, and thus it was proved
that a philosopher might be an impostor!

The arts, as well as the sciences, at the first institution of the Royal Society, were of the
most amusing class. The famous Sir Samuel Moreland had turned his house into an enchanted palace.
Everything was full of devices, which showed art and mechanism in perfection: his coach carried
a travelling kitchen; for it had a fire-place and grate, with which he could make a soup, broil
cutlets, and roast an egg; and he dressed his meat by clock-work. Another of these virtuosi,
who is described as "a gentleman of superior order, and whose house was a knickknackatory,"
valued himself on his multifarious inventions, but most in "sowing salads in the morning, to
be cut for dinner." The house of Winstanley, who afterwards raised the first Eddystone lighthouse,
must have been the wonder of the age. If you kicked aside an old slipper, purposely lying in
your way, up started a ghost before you; or if you sat down in a certain chair, a couple of
gigantic arms would immediately clasp you in. There was an arbour in the garden, by the side
of a canal; you had scarcely seated yourself when you were sent out afloat to the middle of
the canal--from whence you could not escape till this man of art and science wound you up to
the arbour. What was passing at the "Royal Society" was also occurring at the "Académie des
Sciences" at Paris. A great and gouty member of that philosophical body, on the departure of
a stranger, would point to his legs, to show the impossibility of conducting him to the door;
yet the astonished visitor never failed finding the virtuoso waiting for him on the outside,
to make his final bow! While the visitor was going down stairs, this inventive genius was descending
with great velocity in a machine from the window: so that he proved, that if a man of science
cannot force nature to walk down stairs, he may drive her out at the window!

If they travelled at home, they set off to note down prodigies. Dr. Plott, in a magnificent
project of journeying through England, for the advantage of "Learning and Trade," and the discovery
of "Antiquities and other Curiosities," for which he solicited the royal aid which Leland enjoyed,
among other notable designs, discriminates a class thus: "Next I shall inquire of animals;
and first of strange people."--"Strange accidents that attend corporations or families, as
that the deans of Rochester ever since the foundation by turns have died deans and bishops;
the bird with a white breast that haunts the family of Oxenham near Exeter just before the
death of any of that family; the bodies of trees that are seen to swim in a pool near Brereton
in Cheshire, a certain warning to the heir of that honourable family to prepare for the next
world." And such remarkables as "Number of children, such as the Lady Temple, who before she
died saw seven hundred descended from her."[203] This fellow of the Royal Society, who lived
nearly to 1700, was requested to give an edition of Pliny: we have lost the benefit of a most
copious commentary! Bishop Hall went to "the Spa." The wood about that place was haunted not
only by "freebooters, but by wolves and witches; although these last are ofttimes but one."
They were called loups-garoux; and the Greeks, it seems, knew them by the name of [Greek: lukanthrôpoi],
men-wolves: witches that have put on the shapes of those cruel beasts. "We sawe a boy there,
whose half-face was devoured by one of them near the village; yet so, as that the eare was
rather cut than bitten off." Rumour had spread that the boy had had half his face devoured;
when it was examined, it turned out that his ear had only been scratched! However, there can
be no doubt of the existence of "witch-wolves;" for Hall saw at Limburgh "one of those miscreants
executed, who confessed on the wheel to have devoured two-and-forty children in that form."
They would probably have found it difficult to have summoned the mothers who had lost the children.
But observe our philosopher's reasoning: "It would aske a large volume to scan this problem
of lycanthropy." He had laboriously collected all the evidence, and had added his arguments:
the result offers a curious instance of acute reasoning on a wrong principle.[204]

Men of science and art then passed their days in a bustle of the marvellous. I will furnish
a specimen of philosophical correspondence in a letter to old John Aubrey. The writer betrays
the versatility of his curiosity by very opposite discoveries. "My hands are so full of work
that I have no time to transcribe for Dr. Henry More an account of the Barnstable apparition--Lord
Keeper North would take it kindly from you--give a sight of this letter from Barnstable to
Dr. Whitchcot." He had lately heard of a Scotchman who had been carried by fairies into France;
but the purpose of his present letter is to communicate other sort of apparitions than the
ghost of Barnstable. He had gone to Glastonbury, "to pick up a few berries from the holy thorn
which flowered every Christmas day."[205] The original thorn had been cut down by a military
saint in the civil wars; but the trade of the place was not damaged, for they had contrived
not to have a single holy thorn, but several, "by grafting and inoculation."[206] He promises
to send these "berries;" but requests Aubrey to inform "that person of quality who had rather
have a bush, that it was impossible to get one for him. I am told," he adds, "that there is
a person about Glastonbury who hath a nursery of them, which he sells for a crown a piece,"
but they are supposed not to be "of the right kind."

The main object of this letter is the writer's "suspicion of gold in this country;" for which
he offers three reasons. Tacitus says there was gold in England, and that Agrippa came to a
spot where he had a prospect of Ireland--from which place he writes; secondly, that "an honest
man" had in this spot found stones from which he had extracted good gold, and that he himself
"had seen in the broken stones a clear appearance of gold;" and thirdly, "there is a story
which goes by tradition in that part of the country, that in the hill alluded to there was
a door into a hole, that when any wanted money they used to go and knock there, that a woman
used to appear, and give to such as came.[207] At a time one by greediness or otherwise gave
her offence, she flung to the door, and delivered this old saying, still remembered in the country:

  'When all the Daws be gone and dead,
  Then.... Hill shall shine gold red.'

My fancy is, that this relates to an ancient family of this name, of which there is now but
one man left, and he not likely to have any issue." These are his three reasons; and some mines
have perhaps been opened with no better ones! But let us not imagine that this great naturalist
was credulous; for he tells Aubrey that "he thought it was but a monkish tale forged in the
abbey so famous in former time; but as I have learned not to despise our forefathers, I question
whether this may not refer to some rich mine in the hill, formerly in use, but now lost. I
shall shortly request you to discourse with my lord about it, to have advice, &c. In the mean
time it will be best to keep all private for his majesty's service, his lordship's, and perhaps
some private person's benefit." But he has also positive evidence: "A mason not long ago coming
to the renter of the abbey for a freestone, and sawing it, out came divers pieces of gold of
£3 10s. value apiece, of ancient coins. The stone belonged to some chimney-work; the gold was
hidden in it, perhaps, when the Dissolution was near." This last incident of finding coins
in a chimney-piece, which he had accounted for very rationally, serves only to confirm his
dream, that they were coined out of the gold of the mine in the hill; and he becomes more urgent
for "a private search into these mines, which I have, I think, a way to." In the postscript
he adds an account of a well, which by washing, wrought a cure on a person deep in the king's
evil. "I hope you don't forget your promise to communicate whatever thing you have relating
to your IDEA."

This promised Idea of Aubrey may be found in his MSS., under the title of "The Idea of Universal
Education." However whimsical, one would like to see it. Aubrey's life might furnish a volume
of these philosophical dreams: he was a person who from his incessant bustle and insatiable
curiosity was called "The Carrier of Conceptions of the Royal Society." Many pleasant nights
were "privately" enjoyed by Aubrey and his correspondent about the "Mine in the Hill;" Ashmole's
manuscripts at Oxford contain a collection of many secrets of the Rosicrucians; one of the
completest inventions is "a Recipe how to walk invisible." Such were the fancies which rocked
the children of science in their cradles! and so feeble were the steps of our curious infancy!--But
I start in my dreams! dreading the reader may also have fallen asleep!

"Measure is most excellent," says one of the oracles; "to which also we being in like manner
persuaded, O most friendly and pious Asclepiades, here finish"--the dreams at the dawn of philosophy!

FOOTNOTES:

  [197] Godwin's amusing Lives of the Necromancers abound in
    marvellous stories of the supernatural feats of these old students.

  [198] Agrippa was the most fortunate and honoured of occult
    philosophers. He was lodged at courts, and favoured by all his
    contemporaries. Scholars like Erasmus spoke of him with admiration;
    and royalty constantly sought his powers of divination. But in
    advanced life he was accused of sorcery, and died poor in 1534.

  [199] One of the most popular of our old English prose romances,
    "The Historie of Fryer Bacon," narrates how he had intended to "wall
    England about with brass," by means of such a brazen head, had not
    the stupidity of a servant prevented him. The tale may be read in
    Thoms' "Collection of Early English Prose Romances."

  [200] The allusion here is to the automaton chess-player, first
    exhibited by Kempelen (its inventor) in England about 1785. The
    figure was habited as a Turk, and placed behind a chest, this was
    opened by the exhibitor to display the machinery, which seemed to
    give the figure motion, while playing intricate games of chess with
    any of the spectators. But it has been fully demonstrated that this
    chest could conceal a full-grown man, who could place his arm down
    that of the figure, and direct its movements in the game; the
    machinery being really constructed to hide him, and disarm
    suspicion. As the whole trick has been demonstrated by diagrams, the
    marvellous nature of the machinery is exploded.

  [201] This brass duck was the work of a very ingenious mechanist, M.
    Vaucanson; it is reported to have uttered its natural voice, moved
    its wings, drank water, and ate corn. In 1738, he delighted the
    Parisians by a figure of a shepherd which played on a pipe and beat
    a tabor; and a flute-player who performed twelve tunes.

  [202] This great charlatan, after many successful impositions, ended
    his life in poverty in the hospital at Saltzbourg, in 1541.

  [203] Similar popular fallacies may be seen carefully noted in R.
    Burton's "Admirable Curiosities, Rarities, and Wonders in England,
    Scotland, and Ireland," 1684. It is one of those curious volumes of
    "folk-lore" sent out by Nat. Crouch the bookseller, under a
    fictitious name.

  [204] Hall's postulate is, that God's work could not admit of any
    substantial change, which is above the reach of all infernal powers;
    but "Herein the divell plays the double sophister; the sorcerer with
    sorcerers. Hee both deludes the witch's conceit and the beholder's
    eyes." In a word, Hall believes in what he cannot understand! Yet
    Hall will not believe one of the Catholic miracles of "the Virgin of
    Louvain," though Lipsius had written a book to commemorate "the
    goddess," as Hall sarcastically calls her. Hall was told, with great
    indignation, in the shop of the bookseller of Lipsius, that when
    James the First had just looked over this work, he flung it down,
    vociferating "Damnation to him that made it, and to him that
    believes it!"

  [205] Thousands flocked to see this "miracle" in the middle ages,
    and their presence brought great wealth to the abbey. It was
    believed to have grown miraculously from the staff used by St.
    Joseph. It appears to have been brought from Palestine, and merely
    to have flowered in accordance with its natural season, though
    differing with ours.

  [206] Taylor, the water poet, in his "Wonders of the West," 1649,
    says that a slip was preserved by a vintner dwelling at Glastonbury,
    when the soldiers cut down the tree; that he set it in his garden,
    "and he with others did tell me that the same doth likewise bloom on
    the 25th day of December, yearly."

  [207] Many of these tales of treasures in hills, are now reduced to
    the simple facts of discoveries being made of coins and personal
    ornaments, in tumuli of Roman and Saxon settlers in England. In the
    British Museum is a gold breastplate found in a grave at Mold, in
    Flintshire. The grave-hills of Bohemia have furnished the museum at
    Vienna with a large number of gold objects of great size and value.
    In Russia the dead have been found placed between large plates of
    pure gold in the centre of such tumuli; and in Ireland very large
    and valuable gold personal ornaments have been frequently found in
    grave-hills.

ON PUCK THE COMMENTATOR.

Literary forgeries recently have been frequently indulged in, and it is urged that they are
of an innocent nature; but impostures more easily practised than detected leave their mischief
behind, to take effect at a distant period; and as I shall show, may entrap even the judicious!
It may require no high exertion of genius to draw up a grave account of an ancient play-wright
whose name has never reached us, or to give an extract from a volume inaccessible to our inquiries
and, as dulness is no proof of spuriousness, forgeries, in time, mix with authentic documents.[208]

We have ourselves witnessed versions of Spanish and Portuguese poets, which are passed on their
unsuspicious readers without difficulty, but in which no parts of the pretended originals can
be traced; and to the present hour, whatever antiquaries may affirm, the poems of Chatterton[209]
and Ossian[210] are veiled in mystery!

If we possessed the secret history of the literary life of George Steevens, it would display
an unparalleled series of arch deception and malicious ingenuity. He has been happily characterised
by Gifford as "the Puck of Commentators!" Steevens is a creature so spotted over with literary
forgeries and adulterations, that any remarkable one about the time he flourished may be attributed
to him. They were the habits of a depraved mind, and there was a darkness in his character
many shades deeper than belonged to Puck; even in the playfulness of his invention there was
usually a turn of personal malignity, and the real object was not so much to raise a laugh,
as to "grin horribly a ghastly smile," on the individual. It is more than rumoured that he
carried his ingenious malignity into the privacies of domestic life; and it is to be regretted
that Mr. Nichols, who might have furnished much secret history of this extraordinary literary
forger, has, from delicacy, mutilated his collective vigour.

George Steevens usually commenced his operations by opening some pretended discovery in the
evening papers, which were then of a more literary cast than they are at present; the St. James's
Chronicle, the General Evening Post, or the Whitehall, were they not dead in body and in spirit,
would now bear witness to his successful efforts. The late Mr. Boswell told me, that Steevens
frequently wrote notes on Shakspeare, purposely to mislead or entrap Malone, and obtain for
himself an easy triumph in the next edition! Steevens loved to assist the credulous in getting
up for them some strange new thing, dancing them about with a Will-o'-the-wisp--now alarming
them by a shriek of laughter! and now like a grinning Pigwigging sinking them chin-deep into
a quagmire! Once he presented them with a fictitious portrait of Shakspeare, and when the brotherhood
were sufficiently divided in their opinions, he pounced upon them with a demonstration, that
every portrait of Shakspeare partook of the same doubtful authority! Steevens usually assumed
a nom de guerre of Collins, a pseudo-commentator, and sometimes of Amner, who was discovered
to be an obscure puritanic minister who never read text or notes of a play-wright, whenever
he explored into a "thousand notable secrets" with which he has polluted the pages of Shakspeare!
The marvellous narrative of the upas-tree of Java, which Darwin adopted in his plan of "enlisting
imagination under the banner of science," appears to have been another forgery which amused
our "Puck." It was first given in the London Magazine, as an extract from a Dutch traveller,
but the extract was never discovered in the original author, and "the effluvia of this noxious
tree, which through a district of twelve or fourteen miles had killed all vegetation, and had
spread the skeletons of men and animals, affording a scene of melancholy beyond what poets
have described, or painters delineated," is perfectly chimerical. A splendid flim-flam! When
Dr. Berkenhout was busied in writing, without much knowledge or skill, a history of our English
authors, Steevens allowed the good man to insert a choice letter by George Peele, giving an
account of a "merry meeting at the Globe," wherein Shakspeare said Ben Jonson and Ned Alleyne
are admirably made to perform their respective parts. As the nature of the "Biographia Literaria"
required authorities, Steevens ingeniously added, "Whence I copied this letter I do not recollect."
However, he well knew it came from the "Theatrical Mirror," where he had first deposited the
precious original, to which he had unguardedly ventured to affix the date of 1600; unluckily,
Peele was discovered to have died two years before he wrote his own letter! The date is adroitly
dropped in Berkenhout! Steevens did not wish to refer to his original, which I have often seen
quoted as authority. One of these numerous forgeries of our Puck appears in an article in Isaac
Reed's catalogue, art. 8708. "The Boke of the Soldan, conteyninge strange matters touchynge
his lyfe and deathe, and the ways of his course, in two partes, 12mo," with this marginal note
by Reed--"The foregoing was written by George Steevens, Esq., from whom I received it. It was
composed merely to impose on 'a literary friend,' and had its effect; for he was so far deceived
as to its authenticity, that he gave implicit credit to it, and put down the person's name
in whose possession the original books were supposed to be."

One of the sort of inventions which I attribute to Steevens has been got up with a deal of
romantic effect, to embellish the poetical life of Milton; and unquestionably must have sadly
perplexed his last matter-of-fact editor, who is not a man to comprehend a flim-flam!--for
he has sanctioned the whole fiction, by preserving it in his biographical narrative! The first
impulse of Milton to travel in Italy is ascribed to the circumstance of his having been found
asleep at the foot of a tree in the vicinity of Cambridge, when two foreign ladies, attracted
by the loveliness of the youthful poet, alighted from their carriage, and having admired him
for some time as they imagined unperceived, the youngest, who was very beautiful, drew a pencil
from her pocket, and having written some lines, put the paper with her trembling hand into
his own! But it seems,--for something was to account how the sleeping youth could have been
aware of these minute particulars, unless he had been dreaming them,--that the ladies had been
observed at a distance by some friends of Milton, and they explained to him the whole silent
adventure. Milton on opening the paper read four verses from Guarini, addressed to those "human
stars," his own eyes! On this romantic adventure, Milton set off for Italy, to discover the
fair "incognita," to which undiscovered lady we are told we stand indebted for the most impassioned
touches in the Paradise Lost! We know how Milton passed his time in Italy, with Dati, and Gaddi,
and Frescobaldi, and other literary friends, amidst its academies, and often busied in book-collecting.
Had Milton's tour in Italy been an adventure of knight-errantry, to discover a lady whom he
had never seen, at least he had not the merit of going out of the direct road to Florence and
Rome, nor of having once alluded to this Dame de ses pensées, in his letters or inquiries among
his friends, who would have thought themselves fortunate to have introduced so poetical an
adventure in the numerous canzoni they showered on our youthful poet.

This historiette, scarcely fitted for a novel, first appeared where generally Steevens's literary
amusements were carried on, in the General Evening Post, or the St. James's Chronicle: and
Mr. Todd, in the improved edition of Milton's Life, obtained this spurious original, where
the reader may find it; but the more curious part of the story remains to be told. Mr. Todd
proceeds, "The preceding highly-coloured relation, however, is not singular; my friend, Mr.
Walker, points out to me a counterpart in the extract from the preface to Poésies de Marguerite-Eleanore
Clotilde, depuis Madame de Surville, Poète François du XV. Siècle. Paris, 1803."

And true enough we find among "the family traditions" of the same Clotilde, that Justine de
Levis, great-grandmother of this unknown poetess of the fifteenth century, walking in a forest,
witnessed the same beautiful spectacle which the Italian Unknown had at Cambridge; never was
such an impression to be effaced, and she could not avoid leaving her tablets by the side of
the beautiful sleeper, declaring her passion in her tablets by four Italian verses! The very
number our Milton had meted to him! Oh! these four verses! they are as fatal in their number
as the date of Peele's letter proved to George Steevens! Something still escapes in the most
ingenious fabrication which serves to decompose the materials. It is well our veracious historian
dropped all mention of Guarini--else that would have given that coup de grace--a fatal anachronism!
However, his invention supplied him with more originality than the adoption of this story and
the four verses would lead us to infer. He tells us how Petrarch was jealous of the genius
of his Clotilde's grandmother, and has even pointed out a sonnet which, "among the traditions
of the family," was addressed to her! He narrates, that the gentleman, when he fairly awoke,
and had read the "four verses," set off for Italy, which he run over till he found Justine,
and Justine found him, at a tournament at Modena! This parallel adventure disconcerted our
two grave English critics--they find a tale which they wisely judge improbable, and because
they discover the tale copied, they conclude that "it is not singular!" This knot of perplexity
is, however, easily cut through, if we substitute, which we are fully justified in, for "Poète
du XV. Siècle"--"du XIX. Siècle." The "Poésies" of Clotilde are as genuine a fabrication as
Chatterton's; subject to the same objections, having many ideas and expressions which were
unknown in the language at the time they are pretended to have been composed, and exhibiting
many imitations of Voltaire and other poets. The present story of the FOUR Italian verses,
and the beautiful Sleeper, would be quite sufficient evidence of the authenticity of "the family
traditions" of Clotilde, depuis Madame de Surville, and also of Monsieur De Surville himself;
a pretended editor, who is said to have found by mere accident the precious manuscript, and
while he was copying from the press, in 1793, these pretty poems, for such they are, of his
grande tante, was shot in the Reign of Terror, and so completely expired, that no one could
ever trace his existence! The real editor, who we must presume to be the poet, published them
in 1803.

Such, then, is the history of a literary forgery! A Puck composes a short romantic adventure,
which is quietly thrown out to the world in a newspaper or a magazine; some collector, such
as the late Mr. Bindley, who procured for Mr. Todd his original, as idle at least as he is
curious, houses the forlorn fiction--and it enters into literary history! A French Chatterton
picks up the obscure tale, and behold, astonishes the literary inquirers of the very country
whence the imposture sprung! But the FOUR Italian verses, and the Sleeping Youth! Oh! Monsieur
Vanderbourg! for that gentleman is the ostensible editor of Clotilde's poesies of the fifteenth
century, some ingenious persons are unlucky in this world! Perhaps one day we may yet discover
that this "romantic adventure" of Milton and Justine de Levis is not so original as it seems--it
may lie hid in the Astrée of D'Urfé, or some of the long romances of the Scuderies, whence
the English and the French Chattertons may have drawn it. To such literary inventors we say
with Swift:--

      ----Such are your tricks;
  But since you hatch, pray own your chicks!

Will it be credited that for the enjoyment of a temporary piece of malice, Steevens would even
risk his own reputation as a poetical critic? Not only he denounced the sonnets of Shakspeare,
but the sonnet itself, with an absurd question, "What has truth or nature to do with sonnets?"
The secret history of this unwarrantable mutilation of a great author by his editor was, as
I was informed by the late Mr. Boswell, merely done to spite his rival commentator Malone,
who had taken extraordinary pains in their elucidation. Steevens himself had formerly reprinted
them, but when Malone from these sonnets claimed for himself one ivy leaf of a commentator's
pride, behold, Steevens in a rage would annihilate even Shakspeare himself, that he might gain
a triumph over Malone! In the same spirit, but with more caustic pleasantry, he opened a controversy
with Malone respecting Shakspeare's wife! It seems that the poet had forgotten to mention his
wife in his copious will; and his recollection of Mrs. Shakspeare seems to mark the slightness
of his regard, for he only introduced by an interlineation, a legacy to her of his "second
best bed with the furniture"--and nothing more! Malone naturally inferred that the poet had
forgot her, and so recollected her as more strongly to mark how little he esteemed her. He
had already, as it is vulgarly expressed, "cut her off, not indeed with a shilling, but with
an old bed!"[211] All this seems judicious, till Steevens asserts the conjugal affection of
the bard, tells us, that the poet having, when in health, provided for her by settlement, or
knowing that her father had already done so (circumstances entirely conjectural), he bequeathed
to her at his death not merely an old piece of furniture, but, PERHAPS, as a mark of peculiar
tenderness,

  The very bed that on his bridal night
  Received him to the arms of Belvidera!

Steevens' severity of satire marked the deep malevolence of his heart; and Murphy has strongly
pourtrayed him in his address to the Malevoli.

Such another Puck was Horace Walpole! The King of Prussia's "Letter" to Rousseau, and "The
Memorial" pretended to have been signed by noblemen and gentlemen, were fabrications, as he
confesses, only to make mischief. It well became him, whose happier invention, the Castle of
Otranto, was brought forward in the guise of forgery, so unfeelingly to have reprobated the
innocent inventions of a Chatterton.

We have Pucks busied among our contemporaries: whoever shall discover their history will find
it copious though intricate; the malignity at least will exceed tenfold the merriment.

FOOTNOTES:

  [208] A remarkable instance is afforded in the present work; see the
    note to the article on Newspapers, in Vol. I., detailing one which
    has spread falsity to an enormous extent throughout our general
    literature.

  [209] The pretended "antique manuscripts" preserved among the
    Chatterton papers in the British Museum, as well as the fac-simile
    of the "Yellow Roll," published in the Cambridge edition of
    Chatterton's works, are, however, so totally unlike the writing of
    the era to which they purport to belong, that no doubt need be
    entertained as to their falsity.

  [210] They are, however, so far determined by the fragments of
    Gaelic originals, since published by Scottish antiquaries, that the
    amplifications of Macpherson can be detected.

  [211] Mr. Charles Knight, in his edition of Shakspeare, first
    clearly pointed out the true nature of the bequest. The great poet's
    estates, with the exception of a copyhold tenement, expressly
    mentioned in the will, were freehold. His wife was entitled to
    dower, or a life interest of one-third of the proceeds arising from
    lands or tenements the property of Shakspeare, and which were of
    considerable value, she was thus amply provided for by the clear and
    undeniable operation of the law of England. Mr. Halliwell has
    further proved that such bequests were the constant modes of showing
    regard to such relatives as were well provided for by the usual
    legal course of events; and he adds, "so far from this bequest being
    one of slight importance, and exhibiting small esteem, it was the
    usual mode of expressing a mark of great affection."

LITERARY FORGERIES.

The preceding article has reminded me of a subject by no means incurious to the lovers of literature.
A large volume might be composed on literary impostors; their modes of deception, however,
were frequently repetitions; particularly those at the restoration of letters, when there prevailed
a mania for burying spurious antiquities, that they might afterwards be brought to light to
confound their contemporaries. They even perplex us at the present day. More sinister forgeries
have been performed by Scotchmen, of whom Archibald Bower, Lauder, and Macpherson, are well known.

Even harmless impostures by some unexpected accident have driven an unwary inquirer out of
the course. George Steevens must again make his appearance for a memorable trick played on
the antiquary Gough. This was the famous tombstone on which was engraved the drinking-horn
of Hardyknute, to indicate his last fatal carouse; for this royal Dane died drunk! To prevent
any doubt, the name, in Saxon characters, was sufficiently legible. Steeped in pickle to hasten
a precocious antiquity, it was then consigned to the corner of a broker's shop, where the antiquarian
eye of Gough often pored on the venerable odds and ends; it perfectly succeeded on the "Director
of the Antiquarian Society." He purchased the relic for a trifle, and dissertations of a due
size were preparing for the Archæologia![212] Gough never forgave himself nor Steevens for
this flagrant act of ineptitude. On every occasion in the Gentleman's Magazine, when compelled
to notice this illustrious imposition, he always struck out his own name, and muffled himself
up under his titular office of "The Director!" Gough never knew that this "modern antique"
was only a piece of retaliation. In reviewing Masters's Life of Baker he found two heads, one
scratched down from painted glass by George Steevens, who would have passed it off for a portrait
of one of our kings. Gough, on the watch to have a fling at George Steevens, attacked his graphic
performance, and reprobated a portrait which had nothing human in it! Steevens vowed, that
wretched as Gough deemed his pencil to be, it should make "The Director" ashamed of his own
eyes, and be fairly taken in by something scratched much worse. Such was the origin of his
adoption of this fragment of a chimney-slab, which I have seen, and with a better judge wondered
at the injudicious antiquary, who could have been duped by the slight and ill-formed scratches,
and even with a false spelling of the name, which, however, succeeded in being passed off as
a genuine Saxon inscription: but he had counted on his man.[213] The trick is not so original
as it seems. One De Grassis had engraved on marble the epitaph of a mule, which he buried in
his vineyard: some time after, having ordered a new plantation on the spot, the diggers could
not fail of disinterring what lay ready for them. The inscription imported that one Publius
Grassus had raised this monument to his mule! De Grassis gave it out as an odd coincidence
of names, and a prophecy about his own mule! It was a simple joke! The marble was thrown by,
and no more thought of. Several years after it rose into celebrity, for with the erudite it
then passed for an ancient inscription, and the antiquary Poracchi inserted the epitaph in
his work on "Burials." Thus De Grassis and his mule, equally respectable, would have come down
to posterity, had not the story by some means got wind! An incident of this nature is recorded
in Portuguese history, contrived with the intention to keep up the national spirit, and diffuse
hopes of the new enterprise of Vasco de Gama, who had just sailed on a voyage of discovery
to the Indies. Three stones were discovered near Cintra, bearing in ancient characters a Latin
inscription; a sibylline oracle addressed prophetically "To the Inhabitants of the West!" stating
that when these three stones shall be found, the Ganges, the Indus, and the Tagus should exchange
their commodities! This was the pious fraud of a Portuguese poet, sanctioned by the approbation
of the king. When the stones had lain a sufficient time in the damp earth, so as to become
apparently antique, our poet invited a numerous party to a dinner at his country-house; in
the midst of the entertainment a peasant rushed in, announcing the sudden discovery of this
treasure! The inscription was placed among the royal collections as a sacred curiosity! The
prophecy was accomplished, and the oracle was long considered genuine!

In such cases no mischief resulted; the annals of mankind were not confused by spurious dynasties
and fabulous chronologies; but when literary forgeries are published by those whose character
hardly admits of a suspicion that they are themselves the impostors, the difficulty of assigning
a motive only increases that of forming a decision; to adopt or reject them may be equally
dangerous.

In this class we must place Annius of Viterbo,[214] who published a pretended collection of
historians of the remotest antiquity, some of whose names had descended to us in the works
of ancient writers, while their works themselves had been lost. Afterwards he subjoined commentaries
to confirm their authority by passages from known authors. These at first were eagerly accepted
by the learned; the blunders of the presumed editor, one of which was his mistaking the right
name of the historian he forged, were gradually detected, till at length the imposture was
apparent! The pretended originals were more remarkable for their number than their volume;
for the whole collection does not exceed 171 pages, which lessened the difficulty of the forgery;
while the commentaries which were afterwards published must have been manufactured at the same
time as the text. In favour of Annius, the high rank he occupied at the Roman Court, his irreproachable
conduct, and his declaration that he had recovered some of these fragments at Mantua, and that
others had come from Armenia, induced many to credit these pseudo-historians. A literary war
soon kindled; Niceron has discriminated between four parties engaged in this conflict. One
party decried the whole of the collection as gross forgeries; another obstinately supported
their authenticity; a third decided that they were forgeries before Annius possessed them,
who was only credulous; while a fourth party considered them as partly authentic, and ascribed
their blunders to the interpolations of the editor, to increase their importance. Such as they
were, they scattered confusion over the whole face of history. The false Berosus opens his
history before the deluge, when, according to him, the Chaldeans through preceding ages had
faithfully preserved their historical evidences! Annius hints, in his commentary, at the archives
and public libraries of the Babylonians: the days of Noah comparatively seemed modern history
with this dreaming editor. Some of the fanciful writers of Italy were duped: Sansovino, to
delight the Florentine nobility, accommodated them with a new title of antiquity in their ancestor
Noah, Imperatore e monarcha delle genti, visse e morì in quelle parti. The Spaniards complained
that in forging these fabulous origins of different nations, a new series of kings from the
ark of Noah had been introduced by some of their rhodomontade historians to pollute the sources
of their history. Bodin's otherwise valuable works are considerably injured by Annius's supposititious
discoveries. One historian died of grief, for having raised his elaborate speculations on these
fabulous originals; and their credit was at length so much reduced, that Pignori and Maffei
both announced to their readers that they had not referred in their works to the pretended
writers of Annius! Yet, to the present hour, these presumed forgeries are not always given
up. The problem remains unsolved--and the silence of the respectable Annius, in regard to the
forgery, as well as what he affirmed when alive, leave us in doubt whether he really intended
to laugh at the world by these fairy tales of the giants of antiquity. Sanchoniathon, as preserved
by Eusebius, may be classed among these ancient writings or forgeries, and has been equally
rejected and defended.

Another literary forgery, supposed to have been grafted on those of Annius, involved the Inghirami
family. It was by digging in their grounds that they discovered a number of Etruscan antiquities,
consisting of inscriptions, and also fragments of a chronicle, pretended to have been composed
sixty years before the vulgar era. The characters on the marbles were the ancient Etruscan,
and the historical work tended to confirm the pretended discoveries of Annius. They were collected
and enshrined in a magnificent folio by Curtius Inghirami, who, a few years after, published
a quarto volume exceeding one thousand pages to support their authenticity. Notwithstanding
the erudition of the forger, these monuments of antiquity betrayed their modern condiment.[215]
There were uncial letters which no one knew; but these were said to be undiscovered ancient
Etruscan characters; it was more difficult to defend the small italic letters, for they were
not used in the age assigned to them; besides that, there were dots on the letter i, a custom
not practised till the eleventh century. The style was copied from the Latin of the Psalms
and the Breviary; but Inghirami discovered that there had been an intercourse between the Etruscans
and the Hebrews, and that David had imitated the writings of Noah and his descendants! Of Noah
the chronicle details speeches and anecdotes!

The Romans, who have preserved so much of the Etruscans, had not, however, noticed a single
fact recorded in these Etruscan antiquities. Inghirami replied that the manuscript was the
work of the secretary of the college of the Etrurian augurs, who alone was permitted to draw
his materials from the archives, and who, it would seem, was the only scribe who has favoured
posterity with so much secret history. It was urged in favour of the authenticity of these
Etruscan monuments, that Inghirami was so young an antiquary at the time of the discovery,
that he could not even explain them; and that when fresh researches were made on the spot,
other similar monuments were also disinterred, where evidently they had long lain; the whole
affair, however contrived, was confined to the Inghirami family. One of them, half a century
before, had been the librarian of the Vatican, and to him is ascribed the honour of the forgeries
which he buried where he was sure they would be found. This, however, is a mere conjecture!
Inghirami, who published and defended their authenticity, was not concerned in their fabrication;
the design was probably merely to raise the antiquity of Volaterra, the family estate of the
Inghirami; and for this purpose one of its learned branches had bequeathed his posterity a
collection of spurious historical monuments, which tended to overturn all received ideas on
the first ages of history.[216]

It was probably such impostures, and those of false decretals of Isidore, which were forged
for the maintenance of the papal supremacy, and for eight hundred years formed the fundamental
basis of the canon law, the discipline of the church, and even the faith of Christianity, which
led to the monstrous pyrrhonism of father Hardouin, who, with immense erudition, had persuaded
himself that, excepting the Bible and Homer, Herodotus, Plautus, Pliny the elder, with fragments
of Cicero, Virgil, and Horace, all the remains of classical literature were forgeries of the
thirteenth and fourteenth centuries! In two dissertations he imagined that he had proved that
the Æneid was not written by Virgil, nor the Odes of Horace by that poet. Hardouin was one
of those wrong-headed men who, once having fallen into a delusion, whatever afterwards occurs
to them on their favourite subject only tends to strengthen it. He died in his own faith! He
seems not to have been aware that by ascribing such prodigal inventions as Plutarch, Thucydides,
Livy, Tacitus, and other historians, to the men he did, he was raising up an unparalleled age
of learning and genius when monks could only write meagre chronicles, while learning and genius
themselves lay in an enchanted slumber with a suspension of all their vital powers.

There are numerous instances of the forgeries of smaller documents. The Prayer-book of Columbus,
presented to him by the Pope, which the great discoverer of a new world bequeathed to the Genoese
republic, has a codicil in his own writing, as one of the leaves testifies, but as volumes
composed against its authenticity deny. The famous description in Petrarch's Virgil, so often
quoted, of his first rencontre with Laura in the church of St. Clair on a Good Friday, 6th
April, 1327, it has been recently attempted to be shown is a forgery. By calculation, it appears
that the 6th April, 1327, fell on a Monday! The Good Friday seems to have been a blunder of
the manufacturer of the note. He was entrapped by reading the second sonnet, as it appears
in the printed editions!

  Era il giorno ch' al sol si scolorana
  Per la pietà del suo fattore i rai.

"It was on the day when the rays of the sun were obscured by compassion for his Maker." The
forger imagined this description alluded to Good Friday and the eclipse at the Crucifixion.
But how stands the passage in the MS. in the Imperial Library of Vienna, which Abbé Costaing
has found?

  Era il giorno ch' al sol di color raro
  Parve la pietà da suo fattore, ai rai
  Quand Io fu preso; e non mi guardai
  Che ben vostri occhi dentro mi legaro.

"It was on the day that I was captivated, devotion for its Maker appeared in the rays of a
brilliant sun, and I did not well consider that it was your eyes that enchained me!"

The first meeting, according to the Abbé Costaing, was not in a church, but in a meadow--as
appears by the ninety-first sonnet. The Laura of Sade was not the Laura of Petrarch, but Laura
de Baux, unmarried, and who died young, residing in the vicinity of Vaucluse. Petrarch had
often viewed her from his own window, and often enjoyed her society amidst her family.[217]
If the Abbé Costaing's discovery be confirmed, the good name of Petrarch is freed from the
idle romantic passion for a married woman. It would be curious if the famous story of the first
meeting with Laura in the church of St. Clair originated in the blunder of the forger's misconception
of a passage which was incorrectly printed, as appears by existing manuscripts!

Literary forgeries have been introduced into bibliography; dates have been altered; fictitious
titles affixed; and books have been reprinted, either to leave out or to interpolate whole
passages! I forbear entering minutely into this part of the history of literary forgery, for
this article has already grown voluminous. When we discover, however, that one of the most
magnificent of amateurs, and one of the most critical of bibliographers, were concerned in
a forgery of this nature, it may be useful to spread an alarm among collectors. The Duke de
la Vallière, and the Abbé de St. Leger once concerted together to supply the eager purchaser
of literary rarities with a copy of De Tribus Impostoribus, a book, by the date, pretended
to have been printed in 1598, though probably a modern forgery of 1698. The title of such a
work had long existed by rumour, but never was a copy seen by man! Works printed with this
title have all been proved to be modern fabrications. A copy, however, of the introuvable original
was sold at the Duke de la Vallière's sale! The history of this volume is curious. The Duke
and the Abbé having manufactured a text, had it printed in the old Gothic character, under
the title, De Tribus Impostoribus. They proposed to put the great bibliopolist, De Bure, in
good humour, whose agency would sanction the imposture. They were afterwards to dole out copies
at twenty-five louis each, which would have been a reasonable price for a book which no one
ever saw! They invited De Bure to dinner, flattered and cajoled him, and, as they imagined,
at a moment they had wound him up to their pitch, they exhibited their manufacture; the keen-eyed
glance of the renowned cataloguer of the "Bibliographie Instructive" instantly shot like lightning
over it, and, like lightning, destroyed the whole edition. He not only discovered the forgery,
but reprobated it! He refused his sanction; and the forging Duke and Abbé, in confusion, suppressed
the livre introuvable; but they owed a grudge to the honest bibliographer, and attempted to
write down the work whence the De Bures derive their fame.

Among the extraordinary literary impostors of our age--if we except Lauder, who, detected by
the Ithuriel pen of Bishop Douglas, lived to make his public recantation of his audacious forgeries,
and Chatterton, who has buried his inexplicable story in his own grave, a tale, which seems
but half told--we must place a man well known in the literary world under the assumed name
of George Psalmanazar. He composed his autobiography as the penance of contrition, not to be
published till he was no more, when all human motives have ceased which might cause his veracity
to be suspected. The life is tedious; but I have curiously traced the progress of the mind
in an ingenious imposture, which is worth preservation. The present literary forgery consisted
of personating a converted islander of Formosa: a place then little known but by the reports
of the Jesuits, and constructing a language and a history of a new people and a new religion,
entirely of his own invention! This man was evidently a native of the south of France; educated
in some provincial college of the Jesuits, where he had heard much of their discoveries of
Japan; he had looked over their maps, and listened to their comments. He forgot the manner
in which the Japanese wrote; but supposed, like orientalists, they wrote from the right to
the left, which he found difficult to manage. He set about excogitating an alphabet; but actually
forgot to give names to his letters, which afterwards baffled him before literary men.

He fell into gross blunders; having inadvertently affirmed that the Formosans sacrificed eighteen
thousand male infants annually, he persisted in not lessening the number. It was proved to
be an impossibility in so small an island, without occasioning a depopulation. He had made
it a principle in this imposture never to vary when he had once said a thing. All this was
projected in haste, fearful of detection by those about him.

He was himself surprised at his facility of invention, and the progress of his forgery. He
had formed an alphabet, a considerable portion of a new language, a grammar, a new division
of the year into twenty months, and a new religion! He had accustomed himself to write his
language; but being an inexpert writer with the unusual way of writing backwards, he found
this so difficult, that he was compelled to change the complicated forms of some of his letters.
He now finally quitted his home, assuming the character of a Formosan convert, who had been
educated by the Jesuits. He was then in his fifteenth or sixteenth year. To support his new
character, he practised some religious mummeries; he was seen worshipping the rising and setting
sun. He made a prayer-book with rude drawings of the sun, moon, and stars, to which he added
some gibberish prose and verse, written in his invented character, muttering or chanting it,
as the humour took him. His custom of eating raw flesh seemed to assist his deception more
than the sun and moon.[218]

In a garrison at Sluys he found a Scotch regiment in the Dutch pay; the commander had the curiosity
to invite our Formosan to confer with Innes, the chaplain to his regiment. This Innes was probably
the chief cause of the imposture being carried to the extent it afterwards reached. Innes was
a clergyman, but a disgrace to his cloth. As soon as he fixed his eye on our Formosan, he hit
on a project; it was nothing less than to make Psalmanazar the ladder of his own ambition,
and the stepping-place for him to climb up to a good living! Innes was a worthless character;
as afterwards appeared, when by an audacious imposition Innes practised on the Bishop of London,
he avowed himself to be the author of an anonymous work, entitled "A Modest Inquiry after Moral
Virtue;" for this he obtained a good living in Essex: the real author, a poor Scotch clergyman,
obliged him afterwards to disclaim the work in print, and to pay him the profit of the edition
which Innes had made! He lost his character, and retired to the solitude of his living; if
not penitent, at least mortified.

Such a character was exactly adapted to become the foster-father of imposture. Innes courted
the Formosan, and easily won on the adventurer, who had hitherto in vain sought for a patron.
Meanwhile no time was lost by Innes to inform the unsuspicious and generous Bishop of London
of the prize he possessed--to convert the Formosan was his ostensible pretext; to procure preferment
his concealed motive. It is curious enough to observe, that the ardour of conversion died away
in Innes, and the most marked neglect of his convert prevailed, while the answer of the bishop
was protracted or doubtful. He had at first proposed to our Formosan impostor to procure his
discharge, and convey him to England; this was eagerly consented to by our pliant adventurer.
A few Dutch schellings, and fair words, kept him in good humour; but no letter coming from
the bishop, there were fewer words, and not a stiver! This threw a new light over the character
of Innes to the inexperienced youth. Psalmanazar sagaciously now turned all his attention to
some Dutch ministers; Innes grew jealous lest they should pluck the bird which he had already
in his net. He resolved to baptize the impostor--which only the more convinced Psalmanazar
that Innes was one himself; for before this time Innes had practised a stratagem on him which
had clearly shown what sort of a man his Formosan was.

This stratagem was this: he made him translate a passage in Cicero, of some length, into his
pretended language, and give it him in writing; this was easily done, by Psalmanazar's facility
of inventing characters. After Innes had made him construe it, he desired to have another version
of it on another paper. The proposal, and the arch manner of making it, threw our impostor
into the most visible confusion. He had had but a short time to invent the first paper, less
to recollect it; so that in the second transcript not above half the words were to be found
which existed in the first. Innes assumed a solemn air, and Psalmanazar was on the point of
throwing himself on his mercy, but Innes did not wish to unmask the impostor; he was rather
desirous of fitting the mask closer to his face. Psalmanazar, in this hard trial, had given
evidence of uncommon facility, combined with a singular memory. Innes cleared his brow, smiled
with a friendly look, and only hinted in a distant manner that he ought to be careful to be
better provided for the future! An advice which Psalmanazar afterwards bore in mind, and at
length produced the forgery of an entire new language; and which, he remarkably observes, "by
what I have tried since I came into England, I cannot say but I could have compassed it with
less difficulty than can be conceived had I applied closely to it." When a version of the catechism
was made into the pretended Formosan language, which was submitted to the judgment of the first
scholars, it appeared to them grammatical, and was pronounced to be a real language, from the
circumstance that it resembled no other! and they could not conceive that a stripling could
be the inventor of a language. If the reader is curious to examine this extraordinary imposture,
I refer him to that literary curiosity, "An Historical and Geographical Description of Formosa,
with Accounts of the Religion, Customs and Manners of the Inhabitants, by George Psalmanazar,
a Native of the said Isle," 1704; with numerous plates, wretched inventions! of their dress!
religious ceremonies! their tabernacle and altars to the sun, the moon, and the ten stars!
their architecture! the viceroy's castle! a temple! a city house! a countryman's house! and
the Formosan alphabet! In his conferences before the Royal Society with a Jesuit just returned
from China, the Jesuit had certain strong suspicions that our hero was an impostor. The good
father remained obstinate in his own conviction, but could not satisfactorily communicate it
to others; and Psalmanazar, after politely asking pardon for the expression, complains of the
Jesuit that "HE lied most impudently," mentitur impudentissime! Dr. Mead absurdly insisted
Psalmanazar was a Dutchman or a German; some thought him a Jesuit in disguise, a tool of the
non-jurors; the Catholics thought him bribed by the Protestants to expose their church; the
Presbyterians that he was paid to explode their doctrine, and cry up episcopacy! This fabulous
history of Formosa seems to have been projected by his artful prompter Innes, who put Varenius
into Psalmanazar's hands to assist him; trumpeted forth in the domestic and foreign papers
an account of this converted Formosan; maddened the booksellers to hurry the author, who was
scarcely allowed two months to produce this extraordinary volume; and as the former accounts
which the public possessed of this island were full of monstrous absurdities and contradictions,
these assisted the present imposture. Our forger resolved not to describe new and surprising
things as they had done, but rather studied to clash with them, probably that he might have
an opportunity of pretending to correct them. The first edition was immediately sold; the world
was more divided than ever in opinion; in a second edition he prefixed a vindication!--the
unhappy forger got about twenty guineas for an imposture, whose delusion spread far and wide!
Some years afterwards Psalmanazar was engaged in a minor imposture; one man had persuaded him
to father a white composition called the Formosan japan! which was to be sold at a high price!
It was curious for its whiteness, but it had its faults. The project failed, and Psalmanazar
considered the miscarriage of the white Formosan japan as a providential warning to repent
of all his impostures of Formosa!

Among these literary forgeries may be classed several ingenious ones fabricated for a political
purpose. We had certainly numerous ones during our civil wars in the reign of Charles the First.
This is not the place to continue the controversy respecting the mysterious Eikon Basiliké,
which has been ranked among them, from the ambiguous claim of Gauden.[219] A recent writer
who would probably incline not to leave the monarch, were he living, not only his head but
the little fame he might obtain by the "Verses" said to be written by him at Carisbrook Castle,
would deprive him also of these. Henderson's death-bed recantation is also reckoned among them;
and we have a large collection of "Letters of Sir Henry Martin to his Lady of Delight," which
were the satirical effusions of a wit of that day, but by the price they have obtained, are
probably considered as genuine ones, and exhibit an amusing picture of his loose rambling life.[220]
There is a ludicrous speech of the strange Earl of Pembroke, which was forged by the inimitable
Butler. Sir John Birkenhead, a great humourist and wit, had a busy pen in these spurious letters
and speeches.[221]

FOOTNOTES:

  [212] I have since been informed that this famous invention was
    originally a flim-flam of a Mr. Thomas White, a noted collector and
    dealer in antiquities. But it was Steevens who placed it in the
    broker's shop, where he was certain of catching the antiquary.
    When the late Mr. Pegge, a profound brother, was preparing to write
    a dissertation on it, the first inventor of the flam stepped forward
    to save any further tragical termination; the wicked wit had already
    succeeded too well.

  [213] The stone may be found in the British Museum. HARDCNVT is the
    reading on the Harthacnut stone; but the true orthography of the
    name is HARÐACNVT. It was reported to have been discovered in
    Kennington-lane, where the palace of the monarch was said to have
    been located, and the inscription carefully made in Anglo-Saxon
    characters, was to the effect that "Here Hardcnut drank a wine horn
    dry, stared about him, and died."

    Sylvanus Urban, my once excellent and old friend, seems a trifle
    uncourteous on this grave occasion.--He tells us, however, that "The
    history of this wanton trick, with a fac-simile of Schnebbelie's
    drawing, may be seen in his volume lx. p. 217." He says that this
    wicked contrivance of George Steevens was to entrap this famous
    draughtsman! Does Sylvanus then deny that "the Director" was not
    also "entrapped?" and that he always struck out his own name in
    the proof-sheets of the Magazine, substituting his official
    designation, by which the whole society itself seemed to screen "the
    Director!"

  [214] He was a Dominican monk, his real name being Giovanni Nanni,
    which he Latinized in conformity with the custom of his era. He was
    born 1432, and died 1502. His great work, Antiquitatem Rariorum,
    professes to contain the works of Manetho, Berosus, and other
    authors of equal antiquity.

  [215] A forgery of a similar character has been recently effected in
    the débris of the Chapelle St. Eloi (Département de L'Eure,
    France), where many inscriptions connected with the early history of
    France were exhumed, which a deputation of antiquaries, convened to
    examine their authenticity, have since pronounced to be forgeries!

  [216] The volume of these pretended Antiquities is entitled
    Etruscarum Antiquitatum Fragmenta, fo. Franc. 1637. That which
    Inghirami published to defend their authenticity is in Italian,
    Discorso sopra l'Opposizioni fatte all' Antichita Toscane, 4to,
    Firenze, 1645.

  [217] I draw this information from a little "new year's gift," which
    my learned friend, the Rev. S. Weston, presented to his friends in
    1822, entitled "A Visit to Vaucluse," accompanied by a Supplement.
    He derives his account apparently from a curious publication of
    L'Abbé Costaing de Pusigner d'Avignon, which I with other inquirers
    have not been able to procure, but which it is absolutely necessary
    to examine, before we can decide on the very curious but
    unsatisfactory accounts we have hitherto possessed of the Laura of
    Petrarch.

  [218] For some further notices of Psalmanazar and his literary
    labours, we may refer the reader to vol. i. p. 137, note.

  [219] The question has been discussed with great critical acumen by
    Dr. Wordsworth.

  [220] Since this was published I have discovered that Harry Martin's
    Letters are not forgeries, but I cannot immediately recover my
    authority.

  [221] One of the most amusing of these tricks was perpetrated on
    William Prynne, the well-known puritanic hater of the stage, by some
    witty cavalier. Prynne's great work, "Histriomastix, the Player's
    Scourge; or, Actor's Tragedy," an immense quarto, of 1100 pages, was
    a complete condemnation of all theatrical amusements; but in 1649
    appeared a tract of four leaves, entitled "Mr. William Prynne, his
    Defence of Stage Playes; or, a Retractation of a former Book of his
    called Histriomastix." It must have astonished many readers in his
    own day, and would have passed for his work in more modern times,
    but for the accidental preservation of a single copy of a handbill
    Prynne published disclaiming the whole thing. His style is most
    amusingly imitated throughout, and his great love for quoting
    authorities in his margin. He is made to complain that "this wicked
    and tyrannical army did lately in a most inhumane, cruell, rough,
    and barbarous manner, take away the poor players from their houses,
    being met there to discharge the duty of their callings: as if this
    army were fully bent, and most trayterously and maliciously set, to
    put down and depresse all the King's friends, not only in the
    parliament but in the very theatres; they have no care of covenant
    or any thing else." And he is further made to declare, in spite of
    "what the malicious, clamorous, and obstreperous people" may object,
    that he once wrote against stage-plays,--that it was "when I had not
    so clear a light as now I have." We can fancy the amusement this
    pamphlet must have been to many readers during the great Civil War.

OF LITERARY FILCHERS.

An honest historian at times will have to inflict severe stroke on his favourites. This has
fallen to my lot, for in the course of my researches, I have to record that we have both forgers
and purloiners, as well as other more obvious impostors, in the republic of letters! The present
article descends to relate anecdotes of some contrivances to possess our literary curiosities
by other means than by purchase; and the only apology which can be alleged for the splendida
peccata, as St. Austin calls the virtues of the heathen, of the present innocent criminals,
is their excessive passion for literature, and otherwise the respectability of their names.
According to Grose's "Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue," we have had celebrated collectors,
both in the learned and vulgar idioms. But one of them, who had some reasons too to be tender
on this point, distinguished this mode of completing his collections, not by book-stealing,
but by book-coveting. On some occasions, in mercy, we must allow of softening names. Were not
the Spartans allowed to steal from one another, and the bunglers only punished?

It is said that Pinelli made occasional additions to his literary treasures sometimes by his
skill in an art which lay much more in the hand than in the head: however, as Pinelli never
stirred out of his native city but once in his lifetime, when the plague drove him from home,
his field of action was so restricted, that we can hardly conclude that he could have been
so great an enterpriser in this way. No one can have lost their character by this sort of exercise
in a confined circle, and be allowed to prosper! A light-fingered Mercury would hardly haunt
the same spot: however, this is as it may be! It is probable that we owe to this species of
accumulation many precious manuscripts in the Cottonian collection. This plundering then consisted
rather of cajoling others out of what they knew not how to value; and this is an advantage
which every skilful lover of books must enjoy over those whose apprenticeship has not expired.
I have myself been plundered by a very dear friend of some such literary curiosities, in the
days of my innocence and of his precocity of knowledge. However, it does appear that Bishop
More did actually lay violent hands in a snug corner on some irresistible little charmer; which
we gather from a precaution adopted by a friend of the bishop, who one day was found busy in
hiding his rarest books, and locking up as many as he could. On being asked the reason of this
odd occupation, the bibliopolist ingenuously replied, "The Bishop of Ely dines with me to-day."
This fact is quite clear, and here is another as indisputable. Sir Robert Saville writing to
Sir Robert Cotton, appointing an interview with the founder of the Bodleian Library, cautions
Sir Robert, that "If he held any book so dear as that he would be loath to lose it, he should
not let Sir Thomas out of his sight, but set 'the boke' aside beforehand." A surprise and detection
of this nature has been revealed in a piece of secret history by Amelot de la Houssaie, which
terminated in very important political consequences. He assures us that the personal dislike
which Pope Innocent X. bore to the French had originated in his youth, when cardinal, from
having been detected in the library of an eminent French collector, of having purloined a most
rare volume. The delirium of a collector's rage overcame even French politesse; the Frenchman
not only openly accused his illustrious culprit, but was resolved that he should not quit the
library without replacing the precious volume--from accusation and denial both resolved to
try their strength: but in this literary wrestling-match the book dropped out of the cardinal's
robes!--and from that day he hated the French--at least their more curious collectors!

Even an author on his dying bed, at those awful moments, should a collector be by his side,
may not be considered secure from his too curious hands. Sir William Dugdale possessed the
minutes of King James's life, written by Camden, till within a fortnight of his death; as also
Camden's own life, which he had from Hacket, the author of the folio life of Bishop Williams:
who, adds Aubrey, "did filch it from Mr. Camden, as he lay a dying!" He afterwards corrects
his information, by the name of Dr. Thorndyke, which, however, equally answers our purpose,
to prove that even dying authors may dread such collectors!

The medalists have, I suspect, been more predatory than these subtractors of our literary treasures;
not only from the facility of their conveyance, but from a peculiar contrivance which of all
those things which admit of being secretly purloined, can only be practised in this department--for
they can steal and no human hand can search them with any possibility of detection; they can
pick a cabinet and swallow the curious things, and transport them with perfect safety, to be
digested at their leisure. An adventure of this kind happened to Baron Stosch, the famous antiquary.
It was in looking over the gems of the royal cabinet of medals, that the keeper perceived the
loss of one; his place, his pension, and his reputation were at stake: and he insisted that
Baron Stosch should be most minutely examined; in this dilemma, forced to confession, this
erudite collector assured the keeper of the royal cabinet, that the strictest search would
not avail: "Alas, sir! I have it here within," he said, pointing to his breast--an emetic was
suggested by the learned practitioner himself, probably from some former experiment. This was
not the first time that such a natural cabinet had been invented; the antiquary Vaillant, when
attacked at sea by an Algerine, zealously swallowed a whole series of Syrian kings; when he
landed at Lyons, groaning with his concealed treasure, he hastened to his friend, his physician,
and his brother antiquary Dufour,--who at first was only anxious to inquire of his patient,
whether the medals were of the higher empire? Vaillant showed two or three, of which nature
had kindly relieved him. A collection of medals was left to the city of Exeter, and the donor
accompanied the bequest by a clause in his will, that should a certain antiquary, his old friend
and rival, be desirous of examining the coins, he should be watched by two persons, one on
each side. La Croze informs us in his life, that the learned Charles Patin, who has written
a work on medals, was one of the present race of collectors: Patin offered the curators of
the public library at Basle to draw up a catalogue of the cabinet of Amberback there preserved,
containing a good number of medals; but they would have been more numerous, had the catalogue-writer
not diminished both them and his labour, by sequestrating some of the most rare, which was
not discovered till this plunderer of antiquity was far out of their reach.

When Gough touched on this odd subject in the first edition of his "British Topography," "An
Academic" in the Gentleman's Magazine for August 1772, insinuated that this charge of literary
pilfering was only a jocular one; on which Gough, in his second edition, observed that this
was not the case, and that "one might point out enough light-fingered antiquaries in the present
age, to render such a charge extremely probable against earlier ones." The most extraordinary
part of this slight history is, that our public denouncer some time after proved himself to
be one of these "light-fingered antiquaries:" the deed itself, however, was more singular than
disgraceful. At the disinterment of the remains of Edward the First, around which thirty years
ago assembled our most erudite antiquaries, Gough was observed, as Steevens used to relate,
in a wrapping great-coat of unusual dimensions; that witty and malicious "Puck," so capable
himself of inventing mischief, easily suspected others, and divided his glance as much on the
living piece of antiquity as on the elder. In the act of closing up the relics of royalty,
there was found wanting an entire fore-finger of Edward the First; and as the body was perfect
when opened, a murmur of dissatisfaction was spreading, when "Puck" directed their attention
to the great antiquary in the watchman's great-coat--from whence--too surely was extracted
Edward the First's great fore-finger!--so that "the light-fingered antiquary" was recognised
ten years after he denounced the race, when he came to "try his hand."[224]

FOOTNOTES:

  [222] Lansdowne MSS. 888, in the former printed catalogue, art. 79.

  [223] Coins are the most dangerous things which can be exhibited to
    a professed collector. One of the fraternity, who died but a few
    years since, absolutely kept a record of his pilferings; he
    succeeded in improving his collection by attending sales also, and
    changing his own coins for others in better preservation.

  [224] It is probable that this story of Gough's pocketing the
    fore-finger of Edward the First, was one of the malicious inventions
    of George Steevens, after he discovered that the antiquary was among
    the few admitted to the untombing of the royal corpse; Steevens
    himself was not there! Sylvanus Urban (the late respected John
    Nichols), who must know much more than he cares to record of
    "Puck,"--has, however, given the following "secret history" of what
    he calls "ungentlemanly and unwarrantable attacks" on Gough by
    Steevens. It seems that Steevens was a collector of the works of
    Hogarth, and while engaged in forming his collection, wrote an
    abrupt letter to Gough to obtain from him some early impressions, by
    purchase or exchange. Gough resented the manner of his address by a
    rough refusal, for it is admitted to have been "a peremptory one."
    Thus arose the implacable vengeance of Steevens, who used to boast
    that all the mischievous tricks he played on the grave antiquary,
    who was rarely over-kind to any one, was but a pleasant kind of
    revenge.

OF LORD BACON AT HOME.

The history of Lord Bacon would be that of the intellectual faculties, and a theme so worthy
of the philosophical biographer remains yet to be written. The personal narrative of this master-genius
or inventor must for ever be separated from the scala intellectûs he was perpetually ascending:
and the domestic history of this creative mind must be consigned to the most humiliating chapter
in the volume of human life; a chapter already sufficiently enlarged, and which has irrefutably
proved how the greatest minds are not freed from the infirmities of the most vulgar.

The parent of our philosophy is now to be considered in a new light, one which others do not
appear to have observed. My researches into contemporary notices of Bacon have often convinced
me that his philosophical works, in his own days and among his own countrymen, were not only
not comprehended, but often ridiculed, and sometimes reprobated; that they were the occasion
of many slights and mortifications which this depreciated man endured; but that from a very
early period in his life, to that last record of his feelings which appears in his will, this
"servant of posterity," as he prophetically called himself, sustained his mighty spirit with
the confidence of his own posthumous greatness. Bacon cast his views through the maturity of
ages, and perhaps amidst the sceptics and the rejectors of his plans, may have felt at times
all that idolatry of fame, which has now consecrated his philosophical works.

At college, Bacon discovered how "that scrap of Grecian knowledge, the peripatetic philosophy,"
and the scholastic babble, could not serve the ends and purposes of knowledge; that syllogisms
were not things, and that a new logic might teach us to invent and judge by induction. He found
that theories were to be built upon experiments. When a young man, abroad, he began to make
those observations on nature, which afterwards led on to the foundations of the new philosophy.
At sixteen, he philosophised; at twenty-six, he had framed his system into some form; and after
forty years of continued labours, unfinished to his last hour, he left behind him sufficient
to found the great philosophical reformation.

On his entrance into active life, study was not however his prime object. With his fortune
to make, his court connexions and his father's example opened a path for ambition. He chose
the practice of common law as his means, while his inclinations were looking upwards to political
affairs as his end. A passion for study, however, had strongly marked him; he had read much
more than was required in his professional character, and this circumstance excited the mean
jealousies of the minister Cecil, and the Attorney-General Coke. Both were mere practical men
of business, whose narrow conceptions and whose stubborn habits assume that whenever a man
acquires much knowledge foreign to his profession, he will know less of professional knowledge
than he ought. These men of strong minds, yet limited capacities, hold in contempt all studies
alien to their habits.

Bacon early aspired to the situation of Solicitor-General; the court of Elizabeth was divided
into factions; Bacon adopted the interests of the generous Essex, which were inimical to the
party of Cecil. The queen, from his boyhood, was delighted by conversing with her "young lord-keeper,"
as she early distinguished the precocious gravity and the ingenious turn of mind of the future
philosopher. It was unquestionably to attract her favour, that Bacon presented to the queen
his "Maxims and Elements of the Common Law," not published till after his death. Elizabeth
suffered her minister to form her opinions on the legal character of Bacon. It was alleged
that Bacon was addicted to more general pursuits than law, and the miscellaneous books which
he was known to have read confirmed the accusation. This was urged as a reason why the post
of Solicitor-General should not be conferred on a man of speculation, more likely to distract
than to direct her affairs. Elizabeth, in the height of that political prudence which marked
her character, was swayed by the vulgar notion of Cecil, and believed that Bacon, who afterwards
filled the situation both of Solicitor-General and Lord Chancellor, was "a man rather of show
than of depth." We have recently been told by a great lawyer that "Bacon was a master."

On the accession of James the First, when Bacon still found the same party obstructing his
political advancement, he appears, in some momentary fit of disgust, to have meditated on a
retreat into a foreign country; a circumstance which has happened to several of our men of
genius, during a fever of solitary indignation. He was for some time thrown out of the sunshine
of life, but he found its shade more fitted for contemplation; and, unquestionably, philosophy
was benefited by his solitude at Gray's Inn. His hand was always on his work, and better thoughts
will find an easy entrance into the mind of those who feed on their thoughts, and live amidst
their reveries. In a letter on this occasion, he writes, "My ambition now I shall only put
upon my PEN, whereby I shall be able to maintain memory and merit, of THE TIMES SUCCEEDING."
And many years after, when he had finally quitted public life, he told the king, "I would live
to study, and not study to live: yet I am prepared for date obolum Belisario; and, I that have
borne a bag, can bear a wallet."

Ever were THE TIMES SUCCEEDING in his mind. In that delightful Latin letter to Father Fulgentio,
where, with the simplicity of true grandeur, he takes a view of all his works, and in which
he describes himself as "one who served posterity," in communicating his past and his future
designs, he adds that "they require some ages for the ripening of them." There, while he despairs
of finishing what was intended for the sixth part of his Instauration, how nobly he despairs!
"Of the perfecting this I have cast away all hopes; but in future ages, perhaps, the design
may bud again." And he concludes by avowing, that the zeal and constancy of his mind in the
great design, after so many years, had never become cold and indifferent. He remembers how,
forty years ago, he had composed a juvenile work about those things, which with confidence,
but with too pompous a title, he had called Temporis Partus Maximus; the great birth of time!
Besides the public dedication of his Novum Organum to James the First, he accompanied it with
a private letter. He wishes the king's favour to the work, which he accounts as much as a hundred
years' time; for he adds, "I am persuaded the work will gain upon men's minds in AGES."

In his last will appears his remarkable legacy of fame. "My name and memory I leave to foreign
nations, and to mine own countrymen, AFTER SOME TIME BE PAST OVER." Time seemed always personated
in the imagination of our philosopher, and with time he wrestled with a consciousness of triumph.

I shall now bring forward sufficient evidence to prove how little Bacon was understood, and
how much he was even despised, in his philosophical character.

In those prescient views by which the genius of Verulam has often anticipated the institutions
and the discoveries of succeeding times, there was one important object which even his foresight
does not appear to have contemplated. Lord Bacon did not foresee that the English language
would one day be capable of embalming all that philosophy can discover, or poetry can invent;
that his country would at length possess a national literature of its own, and that it would
exult in classical compositions which might be appreciated with the finest models of antiquity.
His taste was far unequal to his invention. So little did he esteem the language of his country,
that his favourite works are composed in Latin; and he was anxious to have what he had written
in English preserved in that "universal language which may last as long as books last." It
would have surprised Bacon to have been told, that the most learned men in Europe have studied
English authors to learn to think and to write. Our philosopher was surely somewhat mortified,
when in his dedication of the Essays he observed, that "of all my other works my Essays have
been most current; for that, as it seems, they come home to men's business and bosoms." It
is too much to hope to find in a vast and profound inventor a writer also who bestows immortality
on his language. The English language is the only object in his great survey of art and of
nature, which owes nothing of its excellence to the genius of Bacon.

He had reason indeed to be mortified at the reception of his philosophical works; and Dr. Rawley,
even some years after the death of his illustrious master, had occasion to observe, that "His
fame is greater and sounds louder in foreign parts abroad than at home in his own nation";
thereby verifying that divine sentence, a prophet is not without honour, save in his own country
and in his own house. Even the men of genius, who ought to have comprehended this new source
of knowledge thus opened to them, reluctantly entered into it; so repugnant are we suddenly
to give up ancient errors which time and habit have made a part of ourselves. Harvey, who himself
experienced the sluggish obstinacy of the learned, which repelled a great but a novel discovery,
could, however, in his turn deride the amazing novelty of Bacon's Novum Organum. Harvey said
to Aubrey, that "Bacon was no great philosopher; he writes philosophy like a lord chancellor."
It has been suggested to me that Bacon's philosophical writings have been much overrated.--His
experimental philosophy from the era in which they were produced must be necessarily defective:
the time he gave to them could only have been had at spare hours; but like the great prophet
on the mount, Bacon was doomed to view the land afar, which he himself could never enter.

Bacon found but small encouragement for his new learning among the most eminent scholars, to
whom he submitted his early discoveries. A very copious letter by Sir Thomas Bodley on Bacon's
desiring him to return the manuscript of the Cogitata et Visa, some portion of the Novum Organum,
has come down to us; it is replete with objections to the new philosophy. "I am one of that
crew," says Sir Thomas, "that say we possess a far greater holdfast of certainty in the sciences
than you will seem to acknowledge." He gives a hint too that Solomon complained "of the infinite
making of books in his time;" that all Bacon delivers is only "by averment without other force
of argument, to disclaim all our axioms, maxims, &c., left by tradition from our elders unto
us, which have passed all probations of the sharpest wits that ever were;" and he concludes
that the end of all Bacon's philosophy, by "a fresh creating new principles of sciences, would
be to be dispossessed of the learning we have;" and he fears that it would require as many
ages as have marched before us that knowledge should be perfectly achieved. Bodley truly compares
himself to "the carrier's horse which cannot blanch the beaten way in which I was trained."[225]

Bacon did not lose heart by the timidity of the "carrier's horse:" a smart vivacious note in
return shows his quick apprehension.

"As I am going to my house in the country, I shall want my papers, which I beg you therefore
to return. You are slothful, and you help me nothing, so that I am half in conceit you affect
not the argument; for myself I know well you love and affect. I can say no more, but non canimus
surdis, respondent omnia sylvæ. If you be not of the lodgings chalked up, whereof I speak in
my preface, I am but to pass by your door. But if I had you a fortnight at Gorhambury, I would
make you tell another tale; or else I would add a cogitation against libraries, and be revenged
on you that way."

A keen but playful retort of a great author too conscious of his own views to be angry with
his critic! The singular phrase of the lodgings chalked up is a sarcasm explained by this passage
in "The Advancement of Learning."

Let us now turn from the scholastic to the men of the world, and we shall see what sort of
notion these critics entertained of the philosophy of Bacon. Chamberlain writes, "This week
the lord chancellor hath set forth his new work, called Instauratio Magna, or a kind of Novum
Organum of all philosophy. In sending it to the king, he wrote that he wished his majesty might
be so long in reading it as he hath been in composing and polishing it, which is well near
thirty years. I have read no more than the bare title, and am not greatly encouraged by Mr.
Cuffe's judgment,[227] who having long since perused it, gave this censure, that a fool could
not have written such a work, and a wise man would not." A month or two afterwards we find
that "the king cannot forbear sometimes in reading the lord chancellor's last book to say,
that it is like the peace of God, that surpasseth all understanding."

Two years afterwards the same letter-writer proceeds with another literary paragraph about
Bacon. "This lord busies himself altogether about books, and hath set out two lately, Historia
Ventorum and De Vitâ et Morte, with promise of more. I have yet seen neither of them, because
I have not leisure; but if the Life of Henry the Eighth (the Seventh), which they say he is
about, might come out after his own manner (meaning his Moral Essays), I should find time and
means enough to read it." When this history made its appearance, the same writer observes,
"My Lord Verulam's history of Henry the Seventh is come forth; I have not read much of it,
but they say it is a very pretty book."[228]

Bacon, in his vast survey of human knowledge, included even its humbler provinces, and condescended
to form a collection of apophthegms: his lordship regretted the loss of a collection made by
Julius Cæsar, while Plutarch indiscriminately drew much of the dregs. The wits, who could not
always comprehend his plans, ridiculed the sage. I shall now quote a contemporary poet, whose
works, for by their size they may assume that distinction, were never published. A Dr. Andrews
wasted a sportive pen on fugitive events; but though not always deficient in humour and wit,
such is the freedom of his writings, that they will not often admit of quotation. The following
is indeed but a strange pun on Bacon's title, derived from the town of St. Albans and his collection
of apophthegms:--

  ON LORD BACON PUBLISHING APOPHTHEGMS

  When learned Bacon wrote Essays,
  He did deserve and hath the praise;
  But now he writes his Apophthegms,
  Surely he dozes or he dreams;
  One said, St. Albans now is grown unable,
  And is in the high-road way--to Dunstable [i.e., Dunce-table.]

To the close of his days were Lord Bacon's philosophical pursuits still disregarded and depreciated
by ignorance and envy, in the forms of friendship or rivality. I shall now give a remarkable
example. Sir Edward Coke was a mere great lawyer, and, like all such, had a mind so walled
in by law-knowledge, that in its bounded views it shut out the horizon of the intellectual
faculties, and the whole of his philosophy lay in the statutes. In the library at Holkham there
will be found a presentation copy of Lord Bacon's Novum Organum, the Instauratio Magna, 1620.
It was given to Coke, for it bears the following note on the title-page, in the writing of Coke:--

  Edw. Coke, Ex dono authoris,
                Auctori consilium
  Instaurare paras veterum documenta sophorum
  Instaura leges, justitiamque prius.

The verses not only reprove Bacon for going out of his profession, but must have alluded to
his character as a prerogative lawyer, and his corrupt administration of the chancery. The
book was published in October, 1620, a few months before his impeachment. And so far one may
easily excuse the causticity of Coke; but how he really valued the philosophy of Bacon appears
by this: in this first edition there is a device of a ship passing between Hercules's pillars;
the plus ultra, the proud exultation of our philosopher. Over this device Coke has written
a miserable distich in English, which marks his utter contempt of the philosophical pursuits
of his illustrious rival. This ship passing beyond the columns of Hercules he sarcastically
conceits as "The Ship of Fools," the famous satire of the German Sebastian Brandt, translated
by Alexander Barclay.

  It deserveth not to be read in schools,
  But to be freighted in the Ship of Fools.

Such then was the fate of Lord Bacon; a history not written by his biographers, but which may
serve as a comment on that obscure passage dropped from the pen of his chaplain, and already
quoted, that he was more valued abroad than at home.

FOOTNOTES:

  [225] This letter may be found in Reliquiæ Bodleianæ, p. 369.

  [226] I have been favoured with this apt illustration by an
    anonymous communicator, who dates from the "London University." I
    request him to accept my grateful acknowledgments.

  [227] Henry Cuffe, secretary to Robert, Earl of Essex, and executed,
    being concerned in his treason. A man noted for his classical
    acquirements and his genius, who perished early in life.

  [228] Chamberlain adds the price of this moderate-sized folio, which
    was six shillings. It would be worth the while of some literary
    student to note the prices of our earlier books, which are often
    found written upon them by their original possessor. A rare tract
    first purchased for twopence has often realized four guineas or more
    in modern days.

SECRET HISTORY OF THE DEATH OF QUEEN ELIZABETH.

It is an extraordinary circumstance in our history, that the succession to the English dominion,
in two remarkable cases, was never settled by the possessors of the throne themselves during
their lifetime; and that there is every reason to believe that this mighty transfer of three
kingdoms became the sole act of their ministers, who considered the succession merely as a
state expedient. Two of our most able sovereigns found themselves in this predicament: Queen
Elizabeth and the Protector Cromwell! Cromwell probably had his reasons not to name his successor;
his positive election would have dissatisfied the opposite parties of his government, whom
he only ruled while he was able to cajole them. He must have been aware that latterly he had
need of conciliating all parties to his usurpation, and was probably as doubtful on his death-bed
whom to appoint his successor as at any other period of his reign. Ludlow suspects that Cromwell
was "so discomposed in body or mind, that he could not attend to that matter; and whether he
named any one is to me uncertain." All that we know is the report of the Secretary Thurlow
and his chaplains, who, when the protector lay in his last agonies, suggested to him the propriety
of choosing his eldest son, and they tell us that he agreed to this choice. Had Cromwell been
in his senses, he would have probably fixed on Henry, the lord-lieutenant of Ireland, rather
than on Richard, or possibly had not chosen either of his sons!

Elizabeth, from womanish infirmity, or from state-reasons, could not endure the thoughts of
her successor; and long threw into jeopardy the politics of all the cabinets of Europe, each
of which had its favourite candidate to support. The legitimate heir to the throne of England
was to be the creature of her breath, yet Elizabeth would not speak him into existence! This
had, however, often raised the discontents of the nation, and we shall see how it harassed
the queen in her dying hours. It is even suspected that the queen still retained so much of
the woman, that she could never overcome her perverse dislike to name a successor; so that,
according to this opinion, she died and left the crown to the mercy of a party! This would
have been acting unworthy of the magnanimity of her great character--and as it is ascertained
that the queen was very sensible that she lay in a dying state several days before the natural
catastrophe occurred, it is difficult to believe that she totally disregarded so important
a circumstance. It is therefore, reasoning à priori, most natural to conclude that the choice
of a successor must have occupied her thoughts, as well as the anxieties of her ministers;
and that she would not have left the throne in the same unsettled state at her death as she
had persevered in during her whole life. How did she express herself when bequeathing the crown
to James the First, or did she bequeath it at all?

In the popular pages of her female historian Miss Aikin, it is observed that "the closing scene
of the long and eventful life of Queen Elizabeth was marked by that peculiarity of character
and destiny which attended her from the cradle, and pursued her to the grave." The last days
of Elizabeth were indeed most melancholy--she died a victim of the higher passions, and perhaps
as much of grief as of age, refusing all remedies and even nourishment. But in all the published
accounts, I can nowhere discover how she conducted herself respecting the circumstance of our
present inquiry. The most detailed narrative, or as Gray the poet calls it, "the Earl of Monmouth's
odd account of Queen Elizabeth's death," is the one most deserving notice; and there we find
the circumstance of this inquiry introduced. The queen at that moment was reduced to so sad
a state, that it is doubtful whether her majesty was at all sensible of the inquiries put to
her by her ministers respecting the succession. The Earl of Monmouth says, "On Wednesday, the
23rd of March, she grew speechless. That afternoon, by signs, she called for her council, and
by putting her hand to her head when the King of Scots was named to succeed her, they all knew
he was the man she desired should reign after her." Such a sign as that of a dying woman putting
her hand to her head was, to say the least, a very ambiguous acknowledgment of the right of
the Scottish monarch to the English throne. The "odd" but very naïve account of Robert Cary,
afterwards Earl of Monmouth, is not furnished with dates, nor with the exactness of a diary.
Something might have occurred on a preceding day which had not reached him. Camden describes
the death-bed scene of Elizabeth; by this authentic writer it appears that she had confided
her state-secret of the succession to the lord admiral (the Earl of Nottingham); and when the
earl found the queen almost at her extremity, he communicated her majesty's secret to the council,
who commissioned the lord admiral, the lord keeper, and the secretary, to wait on her majesty,
and acquaint her that they came in the name of the rest to learn her pleasure in reference
to the succession. The queen was then very weak, and answered them with a faint voice, that
she had already declared, that as she held a regal sceptre, so she desired no other than a
royal successor. When the secretary requested her to explain herself, the queen said, "I would
have a king succeed me; and who should that he but my nearest kinsman, the King of Scots?"
Here this state conversation was put an end to by the interference of the archbishop advising
her majesty to turn her thoughts to God. "Never," she replied, "has my mind wandered from him."

An historian of Camden's high integrity would hardly have forged a fiction to please the new
monarch: yet Camden has not been referred to on this occasion by the exact Birch, who draws
his information from the letters of the French ambassador, Villeroy; information which it appears
the English ministers had confided to this ambassador; nor do we get any distinct ideas from
Elizabeth's more recent popular historian, who could only transcribe the account of Cary. He
had told us a fact which he could not be mistaken in, that the queen fell speechless on Wednesday,
23rd of March, on which day, however, she called her council, and made that sign with her hand,
which, as the lords choose to understand, for ever united the two kingdoms. But the noble editor
of Cary's Memoirs (the Earl of Cork and Orrery) has observed that "the speeches made for Elizabeth
on her death-bed are all forged." Echard, Rapin, and a long string of historians, make her
say faintly (so faintly indeed that it could not possibly be heard), "I will that a king succeed
me, and who should that be but my nearest kinsman, the King of Scots?" A different account
of this matter will be found in the following memoirs. "She was speechless, and almost expiring,
when the chief councillors of state were called into her bedchamber. As soon as they were perfectly
convinced that she could not utter an articulate word, and scarce could hear or understand
one, they named the King of Scots to her, a liberty they dared not to have taken if she had
been able to speak; she put her hand to her head, which was probably at that time in agonising
pain. The lords, who interpreted her signs just as they pleased, were immediately convinced
that the motion of her hand to her head was a declaration of James the Sixth as her successor.
What was this but the unanimous interpretation of persons who were adoring the rising sun?"

This is lively and plausible; but the noble editor did not recollect that "the speeches made
by Elizabeth on her death-bed," which he deems "forgeries," in consequence of the circumstance
he had found in Cary's Memoirs, originate with Camden, and were only repeated by Rapin and
Echard, &c. I am now to confirm the narrative of the elder historian, as well as the circumstance
related by Cary, describing the sign of the queen a little differently, which happened on Wednesday,
23rd. A hitherto unnoticed document pretends to give a fuller and more circumstantial account
of this affair, which commenced on the preceding day, when the queen retained the power of
speech; and it will be confessed that the language here used has all that loftiness and brevity
which was the natural style of this queen. I have discovered a curious document in a manuscript
volume formerly in the possession of Petyt, and seemingly in his own handwriting. I do not
doubt its authenticity, and it could only have come from some of the illustrious personages
who were the actors in that solemn scene, probably from Cecil. This memorandum is entitled

"Account of the last words of Queen Elizabeth about her Successor.

"On the Tuesday before her death, being the twenty-third of March, the admiral being on the
right side of her bed, the lord keeper on the left, and Mr. Secretary Cecil (afterwards Earl
of Salisbury) at the bed's feet, all standing, the lord admiral put her in mind of her speech
concerning the succession had at Whitehall, and that they, in the name of all the rest of her
council, came unto her to know her pleasure who should succeed; whereunto she thus replied:

"I told you my seat had been the seat of kings, and I will have no rascal to succeed me. And
who should succeed me but a king?

"The lords not understanding this dark speech, and looking one on the other; at length Mr.
Secretary boldly asked her what she meant by those words, that no rascal should succeed her.
Whereto she replied, that her meaning was, that a king should succeed: and who, quoth she,
should, that be but our cousin of Scotland?

"They asked her whether that were her absolute resolution? whereto she answered, I pray you
trouble me no more; for I will have none but him. With which answer they departed.

"Notwithstanding, after again, about four o'clock in the afternoon the next day, being Wednesday,
after the Archbishop of Canterbury and other divines had been with her, and left her in a manner
speechless, the three lords aforesaid repaired unto her again, asking her if she remained in
her former resolution, and who should succeed her? but not being able to speak, was asked by
Mr. Secretary in this sort, 'We beseech your majesty, if you remain in your former resolution,
and that you would have the King of Scots to succeed you in your kingdom, show some sign unto
us: whereat, suddenly heaving herself upwards in her bed, and putting her arms out of bed,
she held her hands jointly over her head in manner of a crown; whence as they guessed, she
signified that she did not only wish him the kingdom, but desire continuance of his estate:
after which they departed, and the next morning she died. Immediately after her death, all
the lords, as well of the council as other noblemen that were at the court, came from Richmond
to Whitehall by six o'clock in the morning, where other noblemen that were in London met them.
Touching the succession, after some speeches of divers competitors and matters of state, at
length the admiral rehearsed all the aforesaid premises which the late queen had spoken to
him, and to the lord keeper, and Mr. Secretary (Cecil), with the manner thereof; which they,
being asked, did affirm to be true upon their HONOUR."

Such is this singular document of secret history. I cannot but value it as authentic, because
the one part is evidently alluded to by Camden, and the other is fully confirmed by Cary; and
besides this, the remarkable expression of "rascal" is found in the letter of the French ambassador.
There were two interviews with the queen, and Cary appears only to have noticed the last on
Wednesday, when the queen lay speechless. Elizabeth all her life had persevered in an obstinate
mysteriousness respecting the succession, and it harassed her latest moments. The second interview
of her ministers may seem to us quite supernumerary; but Cary's "putting her hand to her head,"
too meanly describes the "joining her hands in manner of a crown."

JAMES THE FIRST AS A FATHER AND A HUSBAND.

Calumnies and sarcasms have reduced the character of James the First to contempt among general
readers; while the narrative of historians, who have related facts in spite of themselves,
is in perpetual contradiction with their own opinions. Perhaps no sovereign has suffered more
by that art, which is described by an old Irish proverb, of "killing a man by lies." The surmises
and the insinuations of one party, dissatisfied with the established government in church and
state; the misconceptions of more modern writers, who have not possessed the requisite knowledge;
and the anonymous libels, sent forth at a particular period to vilify the Stuarts; all these
cannot be treasured up by the philosopher as the authorities of history. It is at least more
honourable to resist popular prejudice than to yield to it a passive obedience; and what we
can ascertain it would be a dereliction of truth to conceal. Much can be substantiated in favour
of the domestic affections and habits of this pacific monarch; and those who are more intimately
acquainted with the secret history of the times will perceive how erroneously the personal
character of this sovereign is exhibited in our popular historians, and often even among the
few who, with better information, have re-echoed their preconceived opinions.

Confining myself here to his domestic character, I shall not touch on the many admirable public
projects of this monarch, which have extorted the praise, and even the admiration, of some
who have not spared their pens in his disparagement. James the First has been taxed with pusillanimity
and foolishness; this monarch cannot, however, be reproached with having engendered them! All
his children, in whose education their father was so deeply concerned, sustained through life
a dignified character and a high spirit. The short life of Henry was passed in a school of
prowess, and amidst an academy of literature. Of the king's paternal solicitude, even to the
hand and the letter-writing of Prince Henry when young, I have preserved a proof in the article
of "The History of Writing-masters." Charles the First, in his youth more particularly designed
for a studious life, with a serious character, was, however, never deficient in active bravery
and magnanimous fortitude. Of Elizabeth, the Queen of Bohemia, tried as she was by such vicissitudes
of fortune, it is much to be regretted that the interesting story remains untold; her buoyant
spirits rose always above the perpetual changes of a princely to a private state--a queen to
an exile! The father of such children derives some distinction for capacity, in having reared
such a noble offspring; and the king's marked attention to the formation of his children's
minds was such as to have been pointed out by Ben Jonson, who, in his "Gipsies Metamorphosed,"
rightly said of James, using his native term--

  You are an honest, good man, and have care of YOUR BEARNS (bairns).

Among the flouts and gibes so freely bespattering the personal character of James the First,
is one of his coldness and neglect of his queen. It would, however, be difficult to prove by
any known fact that James was not as indulgent a husband as he was a father. Yet even a writer
so well informed as Daines Barrington, who, as a lawyer, could not refrain from lauding the
royal sage during his visit to Denmark, on his marriage, for having borrowed three statutes
from the Danish code, found the king's name so provocative of sarcasm, that he could not forbear
observing, that James "spent more time in those courts of judicature than in attending upon
his destined consort."--"Men of all sorts have taken a pride to gird at me," might this monarch
have exclaimed. But everything has two handles, saith the ancient adage. Had an austere puritan
chosen to observe that James the First, when abroad, had lived jovially; and had this historian
then dropped silently the interesting circumstance of the king's "spending his time in the
Danish courts of judicature," the fact would have borne him out in his reproof; and Francis
Osborne, indeed, has censured James for giving marks of his uxoriousness! There was no deficient
gallantry in the conduct of James the First to his queen; the very circumstance, that when
the Princess of Denmark was driven by a storm back to Norway, the king resolved to hasten to
her, and consummate his marriage in Denmark, was itself as romantic an expedition as afterwards
was that of his son's into Spain, and betrays no mark of that tame pusillanimity with which
he stands overcharged.

The character of the queen of James the First is somewhat obscure in our public history, for
in it she makes no prominent figure; while in secret history she is more apparent. Anne of
Denmark was a spirited and enterprising woman; and it appears from a passage in Sully, whose
authority should weigh with us, although we ought to recollect that it is the French minister
who writes, that she seems to have raised a court faction against James, and inclined to favour
the Spanish and catholic interests; yet it may be alleged as a strong proof of James's political
wisdom, that the queen was never suffered to head a formidable party, though she latterly might
have engaged Prince Henry in that court opposition. The bonhommie of the king, on this subject,
expressed with a simplicity of style which, though it may not be royal, is something better,
appears in a letter to the queen, which has been preserved in the appendix to Sir David Dalrymple's
collections. It is without date, but written when in Scotland, to quiet the queen's suspicions,
that the Earl of Mar, who had the care of Prince Henry, and whom she wished to take out of
his hands, had insinuated to the king that her majesty was strongly disposed to any "popish
or Spanish course." This letter confirms the representation of Sully; but the extract is remarkable
for the manly simplicity of style which the king used.

"I say over again, leave these froward womanly apprehensions, for I thank God I carry that
love and respect unto you which, by the law of God and nature, I ought to do to my wife, and
mother of my children; but not for that ye are a king's daughter; for whether ye were a king's
daughter, or a cook's daughter, ye must be all alike to me since my wife. For the respect of
your honourable birth and descent I married you; but the love and respect I now bear you is
because that ye are my married wife, and so partaker of my honour, as of my other fortunes.
I beseech you excuse my plainness in this, for casting up of your birth is a needless impertinent
(that is, not pertinent) argument to me. God is my witness, I ever preferred you to my bairns,
much more than to a subject."

In an ingenious historical dissertation, but one perfectly theoretical, respecting that mysterious
transaction the Gowrie conspiracy, Pinkerton has attempted to show that Anne of Denmark was
a lady somewhat inclined to intrigue, and that "the king had cause to be jealous." He confesses
that "he cannot discover any positive charge of adultery against Anne of Denmark, but merely
of coquetry."[229] To what these accusations amount it would be difficult to say. The progeny
of James the First sufficiently bespeak their family resemblance. If it be true, that "the
king had ever reason to be jealous," and yet that no single criminal act of the queen's has
been recorded, it must be confessed that one or both of the parties were singularly discreet
and decent; for the king never complained, and the queen was never accused, if we except this
burthen of an old Scottish ballad,

  O the bonny Earl of Murray,
  He was the queen's love.

Whatever may have happened in Scotland, in England the queen appears to have lived occupied
chiefly by the amusements of the court, and not to have interfered with the arcana of state.
She appears to have indulged a passion for the elegancies and splendours of the age, as they
were shown in those gorgeous court masques with which the taste of James harmonized, either
from his gallantry for the queen, or his own poetic sympathy. But this taste for court masques
could not escape the slur and scandal of the puritanic, and these "high-flying fancies" are
thus recorded by honest Arthur Wilson, whom we summon into court as an indubitable witness
of the mutual cordiality of this royal couple. In the spirit of his party, and like Milton,
he censures the taste, but likes it. He says, "The court being a continued maskarado, where
she (the queen) and her ladies, like so many sea-nymphs or Nereides, appeared often in various
dresses, to the ravishment of the beholders; the king himself not being a little delighted
with such fluent elegancies as made the night more glorious than the day."[230] This is a direct
proof that James was by no means cold or negligent in his attentions to his queen; and the
letter which has been given is the picture of his mind. That James the First was fondly indulgent
to his queen, and could perform an act of chivalric gallantry with all the generosity of passion,
and the ingenuity of an elegant mind, a pleasing anecdote which I have discovered in an unpublished
letter of the day will show. I give it in the words of the writer.

                                      "August, 1613.

   "At their last being at Theobalds, about a fortnight ago, the queen,
   shooting at a deer, mistook her mark, and killed Jewel, the king's
   most principal and special hound; at which he stormed exceedingly
   awhile; but after he knew who did it, he was soon pacified, and with
   much kindness wished her not to be troubled with it, for he should
   love her never the worse: and the next day sent her a diamond worth
   two thousand pounds as a legacy from his dead dog. Love and
   kindness increased daily between them."

Such is the history of a contemporary living at court, very opposite to that representation
of coldness and neglect with which the king's temper has been so freely aspersed; and such
too is the true portrait of James the First in domestic life. His first sensations were thoughtless
and impetuous; and he would ungracefully thunder out an oath, which a puritan would set down
in his "tables," while he omitted to note that this king's forgiveness and forgetfulness of
personal injuries were sure to follow the feeling they had excited.

FOOTNOTES:

  [229] The historical dissertation is appended to the first volume of
    Mr. Malcolm Laing's "History of Scotland," who thinks that "it has
    placed that obscure transaction in its genuine light."

  [230] See the article on Court Masques in the early pages of the
    present volume for notices of the elaborate splendour and costliness
    of these favourite displays.

THE MAN OF ONE BOOK.

Mr. Maurice, in his animated Memoirs, has recently acquainted us with a fact which may be deemed
important in the life of a literary man. He tells us, "We have been just informed that Sir
William Jones invariably read through every year the works of Cicero, whose life indeed was
the great exemplar of his own." The same passion for the works of Cicero has been participated
by others. When the best means of forming a good style were inquired of the learned Arnauld,
he advised the daily study of Cicero; but it was observed that the object was not to form a
Latin, but a French style: "In that case," replied Arnauld, "you must still read Cicero."

A predilection for some great author, among the vast number which must transiently occupy our
attention, seems to be the happiest preservative for our taste: accustomed to that excellent
author whom we have chosen for our favourite, we may in this intimacy possibly resemble him.
It is to be feared that, if we do not form such a permanent attachment, we may be acquiring
knowledge, while our enervated taste becomes less and less lively. Taste embalms the knowledge
which otherwise cannot preserve itself. He who has long been intimate with one great author
will always be found to be a formidable antagonist; he has saturated his mind with the excellences
of genius; he has shaped his faculties insensibly to himself by his model, and he is like a
man who ever sleeps in armour, ready at a moment! The old Latin proverb reminds us of this
fact, Cave ab homine unius libri: Be cautious of the man of one book!

Pliny and Seneca give very safe advice on reading: that we should read much, but not many books--but
they had no "monthly list of new publications!" Since their days others have favoured us with
"Methods of Study," and "Catalogues of Books to be Read." Vain attempts to circumscribe that
invisible circle of human knowledge which is perpetually enlarging itself! The multiplicity
of books is an evil for the many; for we now find an helluo librorum not only among the learned,
but, with their pardon, among the unlearned; for those who, even to the prejudice of their
health, persist only in reading the incessant book-novelties of our own time, will after many
years acquire a sort of learned ignorance. We are now in want of an art to teach how books
are to be read, rather than not to read them: such an art is practicable. But amidst this vast
multitude still let us be "the man of one book," and preserve an uninterrupted intercourse
with that great author with whose mode of thinking we sympathise, and whose charms of composition
we can habitually retain.

It is remarkable that every great writer appears to have a predilection for some favourite
author; and, with Alexander, had they possessed a golden casket, would have enshrined the works
they so constantly turned over. Demosthenes felt such delight in the history of Thucydides,
that, to obtain a familiar and perfect mastery of his style, he re-copied his history eight
times; while Brutus not only was constantly perusing Polybius, even amidst the most busy periods
of his life, but was abridging a copy of that author on the last awful night of his existence,
when on the following day he was to try his fate against Antony and Octavius. Selim the Second
had the Commentaries of Cæsar translated for his use; and it is recorded that his military
ardour was heightened by the perusal. We are told that Scipio Africanus was made a hero by
the writings of Xenophon. When Clarendon was employed in writing his history, he was in a constant
study of Livy and Tacitus, to acquire the full and flowing style of the one, and the portrait-painting
of the other: he records this circumstance in a letter. Voltaire had usually on his table the
Athalie of Racine, and the Petit Carême of Massillon; the tragedies of the one were the finest
model of French verse, the sermons of the other of French prose. "Were I obliged to sell my
library," exclaimed Diderot, "I would keep back Moses, Homer, and Richardson;" and, by the
éloge which this enthusiastic writer composed on our English novelist, it is doubtful, had
the Frenchman been obliged to have lost two of them, whether Richardson had not been the elected
favourite. Monsieur Thomas, a French writer, who at times displays high eloquence and profound
thinking, Herault de Sechelles tells us, studied chiefly one author, but that author was Cicero;
and never went into the country unaccompanied by some of his works. Fénélon was constantly
employed on his Homer; he left a translation of the greater part of the Odyssey, without any
design of publication, but merely as an exercise for style. Montesquieu was a constant student
of Tacitus, of whom he must be considered a forcible imitator. He has, in the manner of Tacitus,
characterised Tacitus: "That historian," he says, "who abridged everything, because he saw
everything." The famous Bourdaloue re-perused every year Saint Paul, Saint Chrysostom, and
Cicero. "These," says a French critic, "were the sources of his masculine and solid eloquence."
Grotius had such a taste for Lucan, that he always carried a pocket edition about him, and
has been seen to kiss his hand-book with the rapture of a true votary. If this anecdote be
true, the elevated sentiments of the stern Roman were probably the attraction with the Batavian
republican. The diversified reading of Leibnitz is well known; but he still attached himself
to one or two favourites: Virgil was always in his hand when at leisure, and Leibnitz had read
Virgil so often, that even in his old age he could repeat whole books by heart; Barclay's Argenis
was his model for prose; when he was found dead in his chair, the Argenis had fallen from his
hands. Rabelais and Marot were the perpetual favourites of La Fontaine; from one he borrowed
his humour, and from the other his style. Quevedo was so passionately fond of the Don Quixote
of Cervantes, that often in reading that unrivalled work he felt an impulse to burn his own
inferior compositions: to be a sincere admirer and a hopeless rival is a case of authorship
the hardest imaginable. Few writers can venture to anticipate the award of posterity; yet perhaps
Quevedo had not even been what he was without the perpetual excitement he received from his
great master. Horace was the friend of his heart to Malherbe; he laid the Roman poet on his
pillow, took him in the fields, and called his Horace his breviary. Plutarch, Montaigne, and
Locke, were the three authors constantly in the hands of Rousseau, and he has drawn from them
the groundwork of his ideas in his Emile. The favourite author of the great Earl of Chatham
was Barrow; and on his style he had formed his eloquence, and had read his great master so
constantly, as to be able to repeat his elaborate sermons from memory. The great Lord Burleigh
always carried Tully's Offices in his pocket; Charles V. and Buonaparte had Machiavel frequently
in their hands; and Davila was the perpetual study of Hampden: he seemed to have discovered
in that historian of civil wars those which he anticipated in the land of his fathers.

These facts sufficiently illustrate the recorded circumstance of Sir William Jones's invariable
habit of reading his Cicero through every year, and exemplify the happy result for him, who,
amidst the multiplicity of his authors, still continues in this way to be "the man of one book."

A BIBLIOGNOSTE.

A startling literary prophecy, recently sent forth from our oracular literature, threatens
the annihilation of public libraries, which are one day to moulder away!

Listen to the vaticinator! "As conservatories of mental treasures, their value in times of
darkness and barbarity was incalculable; and even in these happier days, when men are incited
to explore new regions of thought, they command respect as depots of methodical and well-ordered
references for the researches of the curious. But what in one state of society is invaluable,
may at another be worthless; and the progress which the world has made within a very few centuries
has considerably reduced the estimation which is due to such establishments. We will say more--"[231]
but enough! This idea of striking into dust "the god of his idolatry," the Dagon of his devotion,
is sufficient to terrify the bibliographer, who views only a blind Samson pulling down the
pillars of his temple!

This future universal inundation of books, this superfluity of knowledge, in billions and trillions,
overwhelms the imaginnation! It is now about four hundred years since the art of multiplying
books has been discovered; and an arithmetician has attempted to calculate the incalculable
of these four ages of typography, which he discovers have actually produced 3,641,960 works!
Taking each work at three volumes, and reckoning only each impression to consist of three hundred
copies, which is too little, the actual amount from the presses of Europe will give to 1816,
3,277,764,000 volumes! each of which being an inch thick, if placed on a line, would cover
6069 leagues! Leibnitz facetiously maintained that such would be the increase of literature,
that future generations would find whole cities insufficient to contain their libraries. We
are, however, indebted to the patriotic endeavours of our grocers and trunkmakers, alchemists
of literature! they annihilate the gross bodies without injuring the finer spirits. We are
still more indebted to that neglected race, the bibliographers!

The science of books, for so bibliography is sometimes dignified, may deserve the gratitude
of a public, who are yet insensible of the useful zeal of those book-practitioners, the nature
of whose labours is yet so imperfectly comprehended. Who is this vaticinator of the uselessness
of public libraries? Is he a bibliognoste, or a bibliographe, or a bibliomane, or a bibliophile,
or a bibliotaphe? A bibliothecaire, or a bibliopole, the prophet cannot be; for the bibliothecaire
is too delightfully busied among his shelves, and the bibliopole is too profitably concerned
in furnishing perpetual additions to admit of this hyperbolical terror of annihilation![232]

Unawares, we have dropped into that professional jargon which was chiefly forged by one who,
though seated in the "scorner's chair," was the Thaumaturgus of books and manuscripts. The
Abbé Rive had acquired a singular taste and curiosity, not without a fermenting dash of singular
charlatanerie, in bibliography: the little volumes he occasionally put forth are things which
but few hands have touched. He knew well, that for some books to be noised about, they should
not be read: this was one of those recondite mysteries of his, which we may have occasion farther
to reveal. This bibliographical hero was librarian to the most magnificent of book-collectors,
the Duke de la Vallière. The Abbé Rive was a strong but ungovernable brute, rabid, surly, but
très-mordant. His master, whom I have discovered to have been the partner of the cur's tricks,
would often pat him; and when the bibliognostes, and the bibliomanes were in the heat of contest,
let his "bull-dog" loose among them, as the duke affectionately called his librarian. The "bull-dog"
of bibliography appears, too, to have had the taste and appetite of the tiger of politics,
but he hardly lived to join the festival of the guillotine. I judge of this by an expression
he used to one complaining of his parish priest, whom he advised to give "une messe dans son
ventre!" He had tried to exhaust his genius in La Chasse aux Bibliographes et aux Antiquaires
mal avisés, and acted Cain with his brothers! All Europe was to receive from him new ideas
concerning books and manuscripts. Yet all his mighty promises fumed away in projects; and though
he appeared for ever correcting the blunders of others, this French Ritson left enough of his
own to afford them a choice of revenge. His style of criticism was perfectly Ritsonian. He
describes one of his rivals as l'insolent et très-insensé auteur de l'Almanach de Gotha, on
the simple subject of the origin of playing-cards!

The Abbé Rive was one of those men of letters, of whom there are not a few who pass all their
lives in preparations. Dr. Dibdin, since the above was written, has witnessed the confusion
of the mind and the gigantic industry of our bibliognoste, which consisted of many trunks full
of memoranda. The description will show the reader to what hard hunting these book-hunters
voluntarily doom themselves, with little hope of obtaining fame! "In one trunk were about six
thousand notices of MSS. of all ages. In another were wedged about twelve thousand descriptions
of books in all languages, except those of French and Italian; sometimes with critical notes.
In a third trunk was a bundle of papers relating to the History of the Troubadours. In a fourth
was a collection of memoranda and literary sketches connected with the invention of arts and
sciences, with pieces exclusively bibliographical. A fifth trunk contained between two and
three thousand cards, written upon each side, respecting a collection of prints. In a sixth
trunk were contained his papers respecting earthquakes, volcanoes, and geographical subjects."[233]
This Ajax flagellifer of the bibliographical tribe, who was, as Dr. Dibdin observes, "the terror
of his acquaintance, and the pride of his patron," is said to have been in private a very different
man from his public character; all which may be true, without altering a shade of that public
character. The French Revolution showed how men, mild and even kind in domestic life, were
sanguinary and ferocious in their public.

The rabid Abbé Rive gloried in terrifying, without enlightening his rivals; he exulted that
he was devoting to "the rods of criticism and the laughter of Europe the bibliopoles," or dealers
in books, who would not get by heart his "Catechism" of a thousand and one questions and answers:
it broke the slumbers of honest De Bure, who had found life was already too short for his own
"Bibliographie Instructive."

The Abbé Rive had contrived to catch the shades of the appellatives necessary to discriminate
book amateurs; and of the first term he is acknowledged to be the inventor.

A bibliognoste, from the Greek, is one knowing in title-pages and colophons, and in editions;
the place and year when printed; the presses whence issued; and all the minutiæ of a book.

A bibliographe is a describer of books and other literary arrangements.

A bibliomane is an indiscriminate accumulator, who blunders faster than he buys, cock-brained,
and purse-heavy!

A bibliophile, the lover of books, is the only one in the class who appears to read them for
his own pleasure.

A bibliotaphe buries his books, by keeping them under lock, or framing them in glass cases.

I shall catch our bibliognoste in the hour of book-rapture! It will produce a collection of
bibliographical writers, and show to the second-sighted Edinburgher what human contrivances
have been raised by the art of more painful writers than himself--either to postpone the day
of universal annihilation, or to preserve for our posterity, three centuries hence, the knowledge
which now so busily occupies us, and transmit to them something more than what Bacon calls
"Inventories" of our literary treasures.

"Histories, and literary bibliothèques (or bibliothecas), will always present to us," says
La Rive, "an immense harvest of errors, till the authors of such catalogues shall be fully
impressed by the importance of their art; and, as it were, reading in the most distant ages
of the future the literary good and evil which they may produce, force a triumph from the pure
devotion to truth, in spite of all the disgusts which their professional tasks involve; still
patiently enduring the heavy chains which bind down those who give themselves up to this pursuit,
with a passion which resembles heroism.

"The catalogues of bibliothèques fixes (or critical, historical, and classified accounts of
writers) have engendered that enormous swarm of bibliographical errors, which have spread their
roots, in greater or less quantities, in all our bibliographers." He has here furnished a long
list, which I shall preserve in the note.[234]

The list, though curious, is by no means complete. Such are the men of whom the Abbé Rive speaks
with more respect than his accustomed courtesy. "If such," says he, "cannot escape from errors,
who shall? I have only marked them out to prove the importance of bibliographical history.
A writer of this sort must occupy himself with more regard for his reputation than his own
profit, and yield himself up entirely to the study of books."

The mere knowledge of books, which has been called an erudition of title-pages, may be sufficient
to occupy the life of some; and while the wits and "the million" are ridiculing these hunters
of editions, who force their passage through secluded spots, as well as course in the open
fields, it will be found that this art of book-knowledge may turn out to be a very philosophical
pursuit, and that men of great name have devoted themselves to labours more frequently contemned
than comprehended. Apostolo Zeno, a poet, a critic, and a true man of letters, considered it
as no small portion of his glory to have annotated Fontanini, who, himself an eminent prelate,
had passed his life in forming his Bibliotheca Italiana. Zeno did not consider that to correct
errors and to enrich by information this catalogue of Italian writers was a mean task. The
enthusiasm of the Abbé Rive considered bibliography as a sublime pursuit, exclaiming on Zeno's
commentary on Fontanini--"He chained together the knowledge of whole generations for posterity,
and he read in future ages."

There are few things by which we can so well trace the history of the human mind as by a classed
catalogue, with dates of the first publication of books; even the relative prices of books
at different periods, their decline and then their rise, and again their fall, form a chapter
in this history of the human mind; we become critics even by this literary chronology, and
this appraisement of auctioneers. The favourite book of every age is a certain picture of the
people. The gradual depreciation of a great author marks a change in knowledge or in taste.

But it is imagined that we are not interested in the history of indifferent writers, and scarcely
in that of the secondary ones. If none but great originals should claim our attention, in the
course of two thousand years we should not count twenty authors! Every book, whatever be its
character, may be considered as a new experiment made by the human understanding; and as a
book is a sort of individual representation, not a solitary volume exists but may be personified,
and described as a human being. Hints start discoveries: they are usually found in very different
authors who could go no further; and the historian of obscure books is often preserving for
men of genius indications of knowledge, which without his intervention we should not possess!
Many secrets we discover in bibliography. Great writers, unskilled in this science of books,
have frequently used defective editions, as Hume did the castrated Whitelocke; or, like Robertson,
they are ignorant of even the sources of the knowledge they would give the public; or they
compose on a subject which too late they discover had been anticipated. Bibliography will show
what has been done, and suggest to our invention what is wanted. Many have often protracted
their journey in a road which had already been worn out by the wheels which had traversed it:
bibliography unrolls the whole map of the country we purpose travelling over--the post-roads
and the by-paths.

Every half-century, indeed, the obstructions multiply; and the Edinburgh prediction, should
it approximate to the event it has foreseen, may more reasonably terrify a far distant posterity.
Mazzuchelli declared, after his laborious researches in Italian literature, that one of his
more recent predecessors, who had commenced a similar work, had collected notices of forty
thousand writers--and yet, he adds, my work must increase that number to ten thousand more!
Mazzuchelli said this in 1753; and the amount of nearly a century must now be added, for the
presses of Italy have not been inactive.

But the literature of Germany, of France, and of England has exceeded the multiplicity of the
productions of Italy, and an appalling population of authors swarm before the imagination.[235]
Hail then the peaceful spirit of the literary historian, which sitting amidst the night of
time, by the monuments of genius, trims the sepulchral lamps of the human mind! Hail to the
literary Reaumur, who by the clearness of his glasses makes even the minute interesting, and
reveals to us the world of insects! These are guardian spirits who, at the close of every century
standing on its ascent, trace out the old roads we had pursued, and with a lighter line indicate
the new ones which are opening, from the imperfect attempts, and even the errors of our predecessors!

FOOTNOTES:

  [231] "Edinburgh Review," vol. xxxiv, 384.

  [232] Will this writer pardon me for ranking him, for a moment,
    among those "generalisers" of the age who excel in what a critical
    friend has happily discriminated as ambitious writing? that is,
    writing on any topic, and not least strikingly on that of which they
    know least; men otherwise of fine taste, and who excel in every
    charm of composition.

  [233] The late Wm. Upcott possessed, in a large degree, a similar
    taste for miscellaneous collections. He never threw an old hat away,
    but used it as a receptacle for certain "cuttings" from books and
    periodicals on some peculiar subjects. He had filled a room with
    hats and trunks thus crammed; but they were sacrificed at his death
    for want of necessary arrangement.

  [234] Gessner--Simler--Bellarmin--L'Abbé--Mabillon--Montfaucon--Moreri--
    Bayle--Baillet--Niceron--Dupin--Cave--Warton--Casimir Oudin--Le
    Long--Goujet--Wolfius--John Albert Fabricius--Argelati--Tiraboschi--
    Nicholas Antonio--Walchius--Struvius--Brucker--Scheuchzer--Linnæus--
    Seguier--Haller--Adamson--Manget--Kestner--Eloy--Douglas--Weidler--
    Hailbronner--Montucla--Lalande--Bailly--Quadrio--Morhoff--Stollius--
    Funccius--Schelhorn--Engles--Beyer--Gerdesius--Vogts--Freytag--David
    Clement--Chevillier--Maittaire--Orlandi--Prosper Marchand--Schoeplin--
    De Boze--Abbé Sallier--and de Saint Leger.

  [235] The British Museum Library now numbers more than 500,000 volumes.
    The catalogue alone forms a small library.

SECRET HISTORY OF AN ELECTIVE MONARCHY.

A POLITICAL SKETCH.

Poland, once a potent and magnificent kingdom, when it sunk into an elective monarchy, became
"venal thrice an age." That country must have exhibited many a diplomatic scene of intricate
intrigue, which although they could not appear in its public, have no doubt been often consigned
to its secret, history. With us the corruption of a rotten borough has sometimes exposed the
guarded proffer of one party, and the dexterous chaffering of the other: but a masterpiece
of diplomatic finesse and political invention, electioneering viewed on the most magnificent
scale, with a kingdom to be canvassed, and a crown to be won and lost, or lost and won in the
course of a single day, exhibits a political drama, which, for the honour and happiness of
mankind, is of rare and strange occurrence. There was one scene in this drama which might appear
somewhat too large for an ordinary theatre; the actors apparently were not less than fifty
to a hundred thousand; twelve vast tents were raised on an extensive plain, a hundred thousand
horses were in the environs--and palatines and castellans, the ecclesiastical orders, with
the ambassadors of the royal competitors, all agitated by the ceaseless motion of different
factions during the six weeks of the election, and of many preceding months of preconcerted
measures and vacillating opinions, now were all solemnly assembled at the diet.--Once the poet,
amidst his gigantic conception of a scene, resolved to leave it out:

  So vast a throng the stage can ne'er contain--
  Then build a new, or act it in a plain!

exclaimed "La Mancha's knight," kindling at a scene so novel and so vast!

Such an electioneering negotiation, the only one I am acquainted with, is opened in the "Discours"
of Choisin, the secretary of Montluc, Bishop of Valence, the confidential agent of Catharine
de' Medici, and who was sent to intrigue at the Polish diet, to obtain the crown of Poland
for her son the Duke of Anjou, afterwards Henry the Third. This bold enterprise at first seemed
hopeless, and in its progress encountered growing obstructions; but Montluc was one of the
most finished diplomatists that the genius of the Gallic cabinet ever sent forth. He was nicknamed
in all the courts of Europe, from the circumstance of his limping, "le Boiteux;" our political
bishop was in cabinet intrigues the Talleyrand of his age, and sixteen embassies to Italy,
Germany, England, Scotland, and Turkey, had made this "connoisseur en hommes" an extraordinary
politician!

Catharine de' Medici was infatuated with the dreams of judicial astrology; her pensioned oracles
had declared that she should live to see each of her sons crowned, by which prediction probably
they had only purposed to flatter her pride and her love of dominion. They, however, ended
in terrifying the credulous queen; and she, dreading to witness a throne in France, disputed
perhaps by fratricides, anxiously sought a separate crown for each of her three sons. She had
been trifled with in her earnest negotiations with our Elizabeth; twice had she seen herself
baffled in her views in the Dukes of Alençon and of Anjou. Catharine then projected a new empire
for Anjou, by incorporating into one kingdom Algiers, Corsica, and Sardinia; but the other
despot, he of Constantinople, Selim the Second, dissipated the brilliant speculation of our
female Machiavel. Charles the Ninth was sickly, jealous, and desirous of removing from the
court the Duke of Anjou, whom two victories had made popular, though he afterwards sunk into
a Sardanapalus. Montluc penetrated into the secret wishes of Catharine and Charles, and suggested
to them the possibility of encircling the brows of Anjou with the diadem of Poland, the Polish
monarch then being in a state of visible decline. The project was approved; and, like a profound
politician, the bishop prepared for an event which might be remote, and always problematical,
by sending into Poland a natural son of his, Balagny, as a disguised agent; his youth, his
humble rank, and his love of pleasure, would not create any alarm among the neighbouring powers,
who were alike on the watch to snatch the expected spoil; but as it was necessary to have a
more dexterous politician behind the curtain, he recommended his secretary, Choisnin, as a
travelling tutor to a youth who appeared to want one.

Balagny proceeded to Poland, where, under the veil of dissipation, and in the midst of splendid
festivities, with his trusty adjutant, this hair-brained boy of revelry began to weave those
intrigues which were afterwards to be knotted, or untied, by Montluc himself. He had contrived
to be so little suspected, that the agent of the emperor had often disclosed important secrets
to his young and amiable friend. On the death of Sigismond Augustus, Balagny, leaving Choisnin
behind to trumpet forth the virtues of Anjou, hastened to Paris to give an account of all which
he had seen or heard. But poor Choisnin found himself in a dilemma among those who had so long
listened to his panegyrics on the humanity and meek character of the Duke of Anjou; for the
news of St. Bartholomew's massacre had travelled faster than the post; and Choisnin complains
that he was now treated as an impudent liar, and the French prince as a monster. In vain he
assured them that the whole was an exaggerated account, a mere insurrection of the people,
or the effects of a few private enmities, praying the indignant Poles to suspend their decision
till the bishop came: "Attendez le Boiteux!" cried he, in agony.

Meanwhile, at Paris, the choice of a proper person for this embassy had been difficult to settle.
It was a business of intrigue more than of form, and required an orator to make speeches and
addresses in a sort of popular assembly; for though the people, indeed, had no concern in the
diet, yet the greater and the lesser nobles and gentlemen, all electors, were reckoned at one
hundred thousand. It was supposed that a lawyer who could negotiate in good Latin, and one,
as the French proverb runs, who could aller et parler, would more effectually puzzle their
heads, and satisfy their consciences to vote for his client. Catharine at last fixed on Montluc
himself, from the superstitious prejudice, which, however, in this case accorded with philosophical
experience, that "Montluc had ever been lucky in his negotiations."

Montluc hastened his departure from Paris; and it appears that our political bishop had, by
his skilful penetration into the French cabinet, foreseen the horrible catastrophe which occurred
very shortly after he had left it; for he had warned the Count de Rochefoucault to absent himself;
but this lord, like so many others, had no suspicions of the perfidious projects of Catharine
and her cabinet. Montluc, however, had not long been on his journey ere the news reached him,
and it occasioned innumerable obstacles in his progress, which even his sagacity had not calculated
on. At Strasburgh he had appointed to meet some able coadjutors, among whom was the famous
Joseph Scaliger; but they were so terrified by Les Matinées Parisiennes, that Scaliger flew
to Geneva, and would not budge out of that safe corner: and the others ran home, not imagining
that Montluc would venture to pass through Germany, where the protestant indignation had made
the roads too hot for a catholic bishop. But Montluc had set his cast on the die. He had already
passed through several hair-breadth escapes from the stratagems of the Guise faction, who more
than once attempted to hang or drown the bishop, who, they cried out, was a Calvinist; the
fears and jealousies of the Guises had been roused by this political mission. Among all these
troubles and delays, Montluc was most affected by the rumour that the election was on the point
of being made, and that the plague was universal throughout Poland, so that he must have felt
that he might be too late for the one, and too early for the other.

At last Montluc arrived, and found that the whole weight of this negotiation was to fall on
his single shoulders; and further, that he was to sleep every night on a pillow of thorns.
Our bishop had not only to allay the ferment of the popular spirit of the evangelicals, as
the protestants were then called, but even of the more rational catholics of Poland. He had
also to face those haughty and feudal lords, of whom each considered himself the equal of the
sovereign whom he created, and whose avowed principle was, and many were incorrupt, that their
choice of a sovereign should be regulated solely by the public interest; and it was hardly
to be expected that the emperor, the czar, and the King of Sweden would prove unsuccessful
rivals to the cruel, and voluptuous, and bigoted duke of Anjou, whose political interests were
too remote and novel to have raised any faction among these independent Poles.

The crafty politician had the art of dressing himself up in all the winning charms of candour
and loyalty; a sweet flow of honeyed words melted on his lips, while his heart, cold and immovable
as a rock, stood unchanged amidst the most unforeseen difficulties.

The emperor had set to work the Abbé Cyre in a sort of ambiguous character, an envoy for the
nonce, to be acknowledged or disavowed as was convenient; and by his activity he obtained considerable
influence among the Lithuanians, the Wallachians, and nearly all Prussia, in favour of the
Archduke Ernest. Two Bohemians, who had the advantage of speaking the Polish language, had
arrived with a state and magnificence becoming kings rather than ambassadors. The Muscovite
had written letters full of golden promises to the nobility, and was supported by a palatine
of high character; a perpetual peace between two such great neighbours was too inviting a project
not to find advocates; and this party, Choisnin observes, appeared at first the most to be
feared. The King of Sweden was a close neighbour, who had married the sister of their late
sovereign, and his son urged his family claims as superior to those of foreigners. Among these
parties was a patriotic one, who were desirous of a Pole for their monarch; a king of their
fatherland, speaking their mother-tongue, one who would not strike at the independence of his
country, but preserve its integrity from the stranger. This popular party was even agreeable
to several of the foreign powers themselves, who did not like to see a rival power strengthening
itself by so strict a union with Poland; but in this choice of a sovereign from among themselves,
there were at least thirty lords who equally thought that they were the proper wood of which
kings should be carved out. The Poles therefore could not agree on the Pole who deserved to
be a Piaste; an endearing title for a native monarch, which originated in the name of the family
of the Piastis, who had reigned happily over the Polish people for the space of five centuries!
The remembrance of their virtues existed in the minds of the honest Poles in this affectionate
title, and their party were called the Piastis.

Montluc had been deprived of the assistance he had depended on from many able persons, whom
the massacre of St. Bartholomew had frightened away from every French political connexion.
He found that he had himself only to depend on. We are told that he was not provided with the
usual means which are considered most efficient in elections, nor possessed the interest nor
the splendour of his powerful competitors: he was to derive all his resources from diplomatic
finesse. The various ambassadors had fixed and distant residences, that they might not hold
too close an intercourse with the Polish nobles. Of all things, he was desirous to obtain an
easy access to these chiefs, that he might observe, and that they might listen. He who would
seduce by his own ingenuity must come in contact with the object he would corrupt. Yet Montluc
persisted in not approaching them without being sought after, which answered his purpose in
the end. One favourite argument which our Talleyrand had set afloat, was to show that all the
benefits which the different competitors had promised to the Poles were accompanied by other
circumstances which could not fail to be ruinous to the country: while the offer of his master,
whose interests were remote, could not be adverse to those of the Polish nation: so that much
good might be expected from him, without any fear of accompanying evil. Montluc procured a
clever Frenchman to be the bearer of his first despatch, in Latin, to the diet; which had hardly
assembled, ere suspicions and jealousies were already breaking out. The emperor's ambassadors
had offended the pride of the Polish nobles by travelling about the country without leave,
and resorting to the infanta; and besides, in some intercepted letters the Polish nation was
designated as gens barbara et gens inepta. "I do not think that the said letter was really
written by the said ambassadors, who were statesmen too politic to employ such unguarded language,"
very ingeniously writes the secretary of Montluc.

However, it was a blow levelled at the imperial ambassadors; while the letter of the French
bishop, composed "in a humble and modest style," began to melt their proud spirits, and two
thousand copies of the French bishop's letter were eagerly spread.

"But this good fortune did not last more than four-and twenty hours," mournfully writes our
honest secretary; "for suddenly the news of the fatal day of St. Bartholomew arrived, and every
Frenchman was detested."

Montluc, in this distress, published an apology for les Matinées Parisiennes, which he reduced
to some excesses of the people, the result of a conspiracy plotted by the protestants; and
he adroitly introduced as a personage his master Anjou, declaring that "he scorned to oppress
a party whom he had so often conquered with sword in hand." This pamphlet, which still exists,
must have cost the good bishop some invention; but in elections the lie of the moment serves
a purpose; and although Montluc was in due time bitterly recriminated on, still the apology
served to divide public opinion.

Montluc was a whole cabinet to himself: he dispersed another tract in the character of a Polish
gentleman, in which the French interests were urged by such arguments, that the leading chiefs
never met without disputing; and Montluc now found that he had succeeded in creating a French
party. The Austrian then employed a real Polish gentleman to write for his party; but this
was too genuine a production, for the writer wrote too much in earnest; and in politics we
must not be in a passion.

The mutual jealousies of each party assisted the views of our negotiator; they would side with
him against each other. The archduke and the czar opposed the Turk; the Muscovite could not
endure that Sweden should be aggrandised by this new crown; and Denmark was still more uneasy.
Montluc had discovered how every party had its vulnerable point, by which it could be managed.
The cards had now got fairly shuffled, and he depended on his usual good play.

Our bishop got hold of a palatine to write for the French cause in the vernacular tongue; and
appears to have held a more mysterious intercourse with another palatine, Albert Lasky. Mutual
accusations were made in the open diet: the Poles accused some Lithuanian lords of having contracted
certain engagements with the czar; these in return accused the Poles, and particularly this
Lasky, with being corrupted by the gold of France. Another circumstance afterwards arose; the
Spanish ambassador had forty thousand thalers sent to him, but which never passed the frontiers,
as this fresh supply arrived too late for the election. "I believe," writes our secretary with
great simplicity, "that this money was only designed to distribute among the trumpeters and
the tabourines." The usual expedient in contested elections was now evidently introduced; our
secretary acknowledging that Montluc daily acquired new supporters, because he did not attempt
to gain them over merely by promises--resting his whole cause on this argument, that the interest
of the nation was concerned in the French election.

Still would ill fortune cross our crafty politician when everything was proceeding smoothly.
The massacre was refreshed with more damning particulars; some letters were forged, and others
were but too true; all parties, with rival intrepidity, were carrying on a complete scene of
deception. A rumour spread that the French king disavowed his accredited agent, and apologised
to the emperor for having yielded to the importunities of a political speculator, whom he was
now resolved to recall. This somewhat paralysed the exertions of those palatines who had involved
themselves in the intrigues of Montluc, who was now forced patiently to wait for the arrival
of a courier with renewed testimonials of his diplomatic character from the French court. A
great odium was cast on the French in the course of this negotiation by a distribution of prints,
which exposed the most inventive cruelties practised by the Catholics on the Reformed; such
as women cleaved in half in the act of attempting to snatch their children from their butchers;
while Charles the Ninth and the Duke of Anjou were hideously represented in their persons,
and as spectators of such horrid tragedies, with words written in labels, complaining that
the executioners were not zealous enough in this holy work. These prints, accompanied by libels
and by horrid narratives, inflamed the popular indignation, and more particularly the women,
who were affected to tears, as if these horrid scenes had been passing before their eyes.

Montluc replied to the libels as fast as they appeared, while he skilfully introduced the most
elaborate panegyrics on the Duke of Anjou; and in return for the caricatures, he distributed
two portraits of the king and the duke, to show the ladies, if not the diet, that neither of
these princes had such ferocious and inhuman faces. Such are the small means by which the politician
condescends to work his great designs; and the very means by which his enemies thought they
should ruin his cause, Montluc adroitly turned to his own advantage. Anything of instant occurrence
serves electioneering purposes, and Montluc eagerly seized this favourable occasion to exhaust
his imagination on an ideal sovereign, and to hazard, with address, anecdotes, whose authenticity
he could never have proved, till he perplexed even unwilling minds to be uncertain whether
that intolerant and inhuman duke was not the most heroic and most merciful of princes. It is
probable that the Frenchman abused even the license of the French éloge, for a noble Pole told
Montluc that he was always amplifying his duke with such ideal greatness, and attributing to
him such immaculate purity of sentiment, that it was inferred there was no man in Poland who
could possibly equal him; and that his declaration, that the duke was not desirous of reigning
over Poland to possess the wealth and grandeur of the kingdom, and that he was solely ambitious
of the honour to be the head of such a great and virtuous nobility, had offended many lords,
who did not believe that the duke sought the Polish crown merely to be the sovereign of a virtuous
people.

These Polish statesmen appear, indeed, to have been more enlightened than the subtle politician
perhaps calculated on; for when Montluc was over anxious to exculpate the Duke of Anjou from
having been an actor in the Parisian massacre, a noble Pole observed, "That he need not lose
his time at framing any apologies; for if he could prove that it was the interest of the country
that the duke ought to be elected their king, it was all that was required. His cruelty, were
it true, would be no reason to prevent his election, for we have nothing to dread from it:
once in our kingdom, he will have more reason to fear us than we him, should he ever attempt
our lives, our property, or our liberty."

Another Polish lord, whose scruples were as pious as his patriotism was suspicious, however
observed that, in his conferences with the French bishop, the bishop had never once mentioned
God, whom all parties ought to implore to touch the hearts of the electors in the choice of
God's "anointed." Montluc might have felt himself unexpectedly embarrassed at the religious
scruples of this lord, but the politician was never at a fault. "Speaking to a man of letters,
as his lordship was," replied the French bishop, "it was not for him to remind his lordship
what he so well knew; but since he had touched on the subject, he would, however, say, that
were a sick man desirous of having a physician, the friend who undertook to procure one would
not do his duty should he say it was necessary to call in one whom God had chosen to restore
his health; but another who should say that the most learned and skilful is he whom God has
chosen, would be doing the best for the patient, and evince most judgment. By a parity of reason
we must believe that God will not send an angel to point out the man whom he would have his
anointed; sufficient for us that God has given us a knowledge of the requisites of a good king;
and if the Polish gentlemen choose such a sovereign, it will be him whom God has chosen." This
shrewd argument delighted the Polish lord, who repeated the story in different companies, to
the honour of the bishop. "And in this manner," adds the secretary with great naïveté, "did
the sieur, strengthened by good arguments, divulge his opinions, which were received by many,
and run from hand to hand."

Montluc had his inferior manoeuvres. He had to equipoise the opposite interests of the Catholics
and the Evangelists, or the Reformed: it was mingling fire and water without suffering them
to hiss, or to extinguish one another. When the imperial ambassadors gave fêtes to the higher
nobility only, they consequently offended the lesser. The Frenchman gave no banquets, but his
house was open to all at all times, who were equally welcome. "You will see that the fêtes
of the imperialists will do them more harm than good," observed Montluc to his secretary.

Having gained over by every possible contrivance a number of the Polish nobles, and showered
his courtesies on those of the inferior orders, at length the critical moment approached, and
the finishing hand was to be put to the work. Poland, with the appearance of a popular government,
was a singular aristocracy of a hundred thousand electors, consisting of the higher and the
lower nobility, and the gentry; the people had no concern with the government. Yet still it
was to be treated by the politician as a popular government, where those who possessed the
greatest influence over such large assemblies were orators, and he who delivered himself with
the most fluency and the most pertinent arguments would infallibly bend every heart to the
point he wished. The French bishop depended greatly on the effect which his oration was to
produce when the ambassadors were respectively to be heard before the assembled diet; the great
and concluding act of so many tedious and difficult negotiations--"which had cost my master,"
writes the ingenuous secretary, "six months' daily and nightly labours; he had never been assisted
or comforted by any but his poor servants, and in the course of these six months had written
ten reams of paper, a thing which for forty years he had not used himself to."

Every ambassador was now to deliver an oration before the assembled electors, and thirty-two
copies were to be printed, to present one to each palatine, who in his turn was to communicate
it to his lords. But a fresh difficulty occurred to the French negotiator; as he trusted greatly
to his address influencing the multitude, and creating a popular opinion in his favour, he
regretted to find that the imperial ambassador would deliver his speech in the Bohemian language,
so that he would be understood by the greater part of the assembly; a considerable advantage
over Montluc, who could only address them in Latin. The inventive genius of the French bishop
resolved on two things which had never before been practised: first, to have his Latin translated
into the vernacular idiom; and, secondly, to print an edition of fifteen hundred copies in
both languages, and thus to obtain a vast advantage over the other ambassadors, with their
thirty-two manuscript copies, of which each copy was used to be read to 1200 persons. The great
difficulty was to get it secretly translated and printed. This fell to the management of Choisnin,
the secretary. He set off to the castle of the palatine, Solikotski, who was deep in the French
interest; Solikotski despatched the version in six days. Hastening with the precious MS. to
Cracow, Choisnin flew to a trusty printer, with whom he was connected; the sheets were deposited
every night at Choisnin's lodgings, and at the end of a fortnight the diligent secretary conducted
the 1500 copies in secret triumph to Warsaw.

Yet this glorious labour was not ended; Montluc was in no haste to deliver his wonder-working
oration, on which the fate of a crown seemed to depend. When his turn came to be heard, he
suddenly fell sick; the fact was, that he wished to speak last, which would give him the advantage
of replying to any objection raised by his rivals, and admit also of an attack on their weak
points.

He contrived to obtain copies of their harangues, and discovered five points which struck at
the French interest. Our poor bishop had now to sit up through the night to re-write five leaves
of his printed oration, and cancel five which had been printed; and worse! he had to get them
by heart, and to have them translated and inserted, by employing twenty scribes day and night.
"It is scarcely credible what my master went through about this time," saith the historian
of his "gestes."

The council or diet was held in a vast plain. Twelve pavilions were raised to receive the Polish
nobility and the ambassadors. One of a circular form was supported by a single mast, and was
large enough to contain 6000 persons, without any one approaching the mast nearer than by twenty
steps, leaving this space void to preserve silence; the different orders were placed around;
the archbishop and the bishops, the palatines, the castellans, each according to their rank.
During the six weeks of the sittings of the diet, 100,000 horses were in the environs, yet
forage and every sort of provisions abounded. There were no disturbances, not a single quarrel
occurred, although there wanted not in that meeting for enmities of long standing. It was strange,
and even awful, to view such a mighty assembly preserving the greatest order, and every one
seriously intent on this solemn occasion.

At length the elaborate oration was delivered: it lasted three hours, and Choisnin assures
us not a single auditor felt weary. "A cry of joy broke out from the tent, and was re-echoed
through the plain, when Montluc ceased: it was a public acclamation; and had the election been
fixed for that moment, when all hearts were warm, surely the duke had been chosen without a
dissenting voice." Thus writes, in rapture, the ingenuous secretary; and in the spirit of the
times communicates a delightful augury attending this speech, by which evidently was foreseen
its happy termination. "Those who disdain all things will take this to be a mere invention
of mine," says honest Choisnin: "but true it is, that while the said sieur delivered his harangue,
a lark was seen all the while upon the mast of the pavilion, singing and warbling, which was
remarked by a great number of lords, because the lark is accustomed only to rest itself on
the earth: the most impartial confessed this to be a good augury.[236] Also it was observed,
that when the other ambassadors were speaking, a hare, and at another time a hog, ran through
the tent; and when the Swedish ambassador spoke, the great tent fell half-way down. This lark
singing all the while did no little good to our cause; for many of the nobles and gentry noticed
this curious particularity, because when a thing which does not commonly happen occurs in a
public affair, such appearances give rise to hopes either of good or of evil."

The singing of this lark in favour of the Duke of Anjou is not so evident as the cunning trick
of the other French agent, the political Bishop of Valence, who now reaped the full advantage
of his 1500 copies over the thirty-two of his rivals. Every one had the French one in hand,
or read it to his friends; while the others, in manuscript, were confined to a very narrow circle.

The period from the 10th of April to the 6th of May, when they proceeded to the election, proved
to be an interval of infinite perplexities, troubles, and activity; it is probable that the
secret history of this period of the negotiations was never written. The other ambassadors
were for protracting the election, perceiving the French interest prevalent: but delay would
not serve the purpose of Montluc, he not being so well provided with friends and means on the
spot as the others were. The public opinion which he had succeeded in creating, by some unforeseen
circumstance might change.

During this interval, the bishop had to put several agents of the other parties hors de combat.
He got rid of a formidable adversary in the Cardinal Commendon, an agent of the pope's, whom
he proved ought not to be present at the election, and the cardinal was ordered to take his
departure. A bullying colonel was set upon the French negotiator, and went about from tent
to tent with a list of the debts of the Duke of Anjou, to show that the nation could expect
nothing profitable from a ruined spendthrift. The page of a Polish count flew to Montluc for
protection, entreating permission to accompany the bishop on his return to Paris. The servants
of the count pursued the page; but this young gentleman had so insinuated himself into the
favour of the bishop, that he was suffered to remain. The next day the page desired Montluc
would grant him the full liberty of his religion, being an evangelical, that he might communicate
this to his friends, and thus fix them to the French party. Montluc was too penetrating for
this young political agent, whom he discovered to be a spy, and the pursuit of his fellows
to have been a farce; he sent the page back to his master, the evangelical count, observing
that such tricks were too gross to be played on one who had managed affairs in all the courts
of Europe before he came into Poland.

Another alarm was raised by a letter from the grand vizier of Selim the Second, addressed to
the diet, in which he requested that they would either choose a king from among themselves,
or elect the brother of the King of France. Some zealous Frenchman at the Sublime Porte had
officiously procured this recommendation from the enemy of Christianity; but an alliance with
Mahometanism did no service to Montluc, either with the catholics or the evangelicals. The
bishop was in despair, and thought that his handiwork of six months' toil and trouble was to
be shook into pieces in an hour. Montluc, being shown the letter, instantly insisted that it
was a forgery, designed to injure his master the duke. The letter was attended by some suspicious
circumstances; and the French bishop, quick at expedients, snatched at an advantage which the
politician knows how to lay hold of in the chapter of accidents. "The letter was not sealed
with the golden seal, nor enclosed in a silken purse or cloth of gold; and farther, if they
examined the translation," he said, "they would find that it was not written on Turkish paper."
This was a piece of the sieur's good fortune, for the letter was not forged; but owing to the
circumstance that the Boyar of Wallachia had taken out the letter to send a translation with
it, which the vizier had omitted, it arrived without its usual accompaniments; and the courier,
when inquired after, was kept out of the way: so that, in a few days, nothing more was heard
of the great vizier's letter. "Such was our fortunate escape," says the secretary, "from the
friendly but fatal interference of the sultan, than which the sieur dreaded nothing so much."

Many secret agents of the different powers were spinning their dark intrigues; and often, when
discovered or disconcerted, the creatures were again at their "dirty work." These agents were
conveniently disavowed or acknowledged by their employers. The Abbé Cyre was an active agent
of the emperor's, and though not publicly accredited, was still hovering about. In Lithuania
he had contrived matters so well as to have gained over that important province for the archduke;
and was passing through Prussia to hasten to communicate with the emperor, but "some honest
men," quelques bons personnages, says the French secretary, and no doubt some good friends
of his master, "took him by surprise, and laid him up safely in the castle of Marienburgh,
where truly he was a little uncivilly used by the soldiers, who rifled his portmanteau and
sent us his papers, when we discovered all his foul practices." The emperor, it seems, was
angry at the arrest of his secret agent; but as no one had the power of releasing the Abbé
Cyre at that moment, what with receiving remonstrances and furnishing replies, the time passed
away, and a very troublesome adversary was in safe custody during the election. The dissensions
between the catholics and the evangelicals were always on the point of breaking out; but Montluc
succeeded in quieting these inveterate parties by terrifying their imaginations with sanguinary
civil wars, and invasions of the Turks and the Tartars. He satisfied the catholics with the
hope that time would put an end to heresy, and the evangelicals were glad to obtain a truce
from persecution. The day before the election Montluc found himself so confident, that he despatched
a courier to the French court, and expressed himself in the true style of a speculative politician,
that des douze tables du Damier nous en avons les Neufs assurés.

There were preludes to the election; and the first was probably in acquiescence with a saturnalian
humour prevalent in some countries, where the lower orders are only allowed to indulge their
taste for the mockery of the great at stated times and on fixed occasions. A droll scene of
a mock election, as well as combat, took place between the numerous Polish pages, who, saith
the grave secretary, are still more mischievous than our own: these elected among themselves
four competitors, made a senate to burlesque the diet, and went to loggerheads. Those who represented
the archduke were well beaten, the Swede was hunted down, and for the Piastis, they seized
on a cart belonging to a gentleman, laden with provisions, broke it to pieces, and burnt the
axle-tree, which in that country is called a piasti, and cried out The Piasti is burnt! nor
could the senators at the diet that day command any order or silence. The French party wore
white handkerchiefs in their hats, and they were so numerous as to defeat the others.

The next day, however, opened a different scene; "the nobles prepared to deliberate, and each
palatine in his quarters was with his companions on their knees, and many with tears in their
eyes, chanting a hymn to the Holy Ghost; it must be confessed that this looked like a work
of God," says our secretary, who probably understood the manoeuvring of the mock combat, or
the mock prayers, much better than we may. Everything tells at an election, burlesque or solemnity!

The election took place, and the Duke of Anjou was proclaimed King of Poland--but the troubles
of Montluc did not terminate. When they presented certain articles for his signature, the bishop
discovered that these had undergone material alterations from the proposals submitted to him
before the proclamation; these alterations referred to a disavowal of the Parisian massacre;
the punishment of its authors, and toleration in religion. Montluc refused to sign, and cross-examined
his Polish friends about the original proposals; one party agreed that some things had been
changed, but that they were too trivial to lose a crown for; others declared that the alterations
were necessary to allay the fears, or secure the safety, of the people. Our Gallic diplomatist
was outwitted, and after all his intrigues and cunning, he found that the crown of Poland was
only to be delivered on conditional terms.

In this dilemma, with a crown depending on a stroke of his pen,--remonstrating, entreating,
arguing, and still delaying, like "Ancient Pistol" swallowing his leek, he witnessed with alarm
some preparations for a new election, and his rivals on the watch with their protests. Montluc,
in despair, signed the conditions--"assured, however," says the secretary, who groans over
this finale, "that when the elected monarch should arrive, the states would easily be induced
to correct them, and place things in statu quo, as before the proclamation. I was not a witness,
being then despatched to Paris with the joyful news, but I heard that the sieur evesque it
was thought would have died in this agony, of being reduced to the hard necessity either to
sign, or to lose the fruits of his labours. The conditions were afterwards for a long while
disputed in France." De Thou informs us, in lib. lvii. of his history, that Montluc after signing
these conditions wrote to his master, that he was not bound by them, because they did not concern
Poland in general, and that they had compelled him to sign, what at the same time he had informed
them his instructions did not authorise. Such was the true Jesuitic conduct of a grey-haired
politician, who at length found that honest plain sense could embarrass and finally entrap
the creature of the cabinet, the artificial genius of diplomatic finesse.

The secretary, however, views nothing but his master's glory in the issue of this most difficult
negotiation; and the triumph of Anjou over the youthful archduke, whom the Poles might have
moulded to their will, and over the King of Sweden, who claimed the crown by his queen's side,
and had offered to unite his part of Livonia with that which the Poles possessed. He labours
hard to prove that the palatines and the castellans were not pratiqués, i.e., had their votes
bought up by Montluc, as was reported; from their number and their opposite interests, he confesses
that the sieur evesque slept little, while in Poland, and that he only gained over the hearts
of men by that natural gift of God which acquired him the title of the happy ambassador. He
rather seems to regret that France was not prodigal of her purchase-money, than to affirm that
all palatines were alike scrupulous of their honour.

One more fact may close this political sketch; a lesson of the nature of court gratitude! The
French court affected to receive Choisnin with favour, but their suppressed discontent was
reserved for "the happy ambassador!" Affairs had changed; Charles the Ninth was dying, and
Catharine de' Medici in despair for a son to whom she had sacrificed all; while Anjou, already
immersed in the wantonness of youth and pleasure, considered his elevation to the throne of
Poland as an exile which separated him from his depraved enjoyments! Montluc was rewarded only
by incurring disgrace; Catharine de' Medici and the Duke of Anjou now looked coldly on him,
and expressed their dislike of his successful mission. "The mother of kings," as Choisnin designates
Catharine de' Medici, to whom he addresses his memoirs, with the hope of awakening her recollections
of the zeal, the genius, and the success of his old master, had no longer any use for her favourite;
and Montluc found, as the commentator of Choisnin expresses in a few words, an important truth
in political morality, that "at court the interest of the moment is the measure of its affections
and its hatreds."[237]

FOOTNOTES:

  [236] Our honest secretary reminds me of a passage in Geoffrey of
    Monmouth, who says, "At this place an eagle spoke while the wall
    of the town was building; and indeed I should not have failed
    transmitting the speech to posterity had I thought it true as
    the rest of the history."

  [237] I have drawn up this article, for the curiosity of its subject
    and its details, from the "Discours au vray de tout ce qui s'est
    fait et passé pour l'entière Négociation de l'Election du Roi de
    Pologne, divisés en trois livres, par Jehan Choisnin du
    Chatelleraud, naguères Secrétaire de M. l'Evesque de Valence," 1574.

BUILDINGS IN THE METROPOLIS, AND RESIDENCE IN THE COUNTRY.

Recently more than one of our learned judges from the bench have perhaps astonished their auditors
by impressing them with an old-fashioned notion of residing more on their estates than the
fashionable modes of life and the esprit de société, now overpowering all other esprit, will
ever admit. These opinions excited my attention to a curious circumstance in the history of
our manners--the great anxiety of our government, from the days of Elizabeth till much later
than those of Charles the Second, to preserve the kingdom from the evils of an overgrown metropolis.
The people themselves indeed participated in the same alarm at the growth of the city; while,
however, they themselves were perpetuating the grievance which they complained of.

It is amusing to observe, that although the government was frequently employing even their
most forcible acts to restrict the limits of the metropolis, the suburbs were gradually incorporating
with the city, and Westminster at length united itself to London. Since that happy marriage,
their fertile progenies have so blended together, that little Londons are no longer distinguishable
from the ancient parent; we have succeeded in spreading the capital into a county, and have
verified the prediction of James the First, "that England will shortly be London, and London
England."

"I think it a great object," said Justice Best, in delivering his sentiments in favour of the
Game Laws, "that gentlemen should have a temptation to reside in the country, amongst their
neighbours and tenantry, whose interests must be materially advanced by such a circumstance.
The links of society are thereby better preserved, and the mutual advantages and dependence
of the higher and lower classes on one another are better maintained. The baneful effects of
our present system we have lately seen in a neighbouring country, and an ingenious French writer
has lately shown the ill consequences of it on the continent."[238]

These sentiments of a living luminary of the law afford some reason of policy for the dread
which our government long entertained on account of the perpetual growth of the metropolis;
the nation, like a hypochondriac, was ludicrously terrified that their head was too monstrous
for their body, and that it drew all the moisture of life from the middle and the extremities.
Proclamations warned and exhorted; but the very interference of a royal prohibition seemed
to render the crowded city more charming. In vain the statute against new buildings was passed
by Elizabeth; in vain during the reigns of James the First and both the Charleses we find proclamations
continually issuing to forbid new erections.

James was apt to throw out his opinions in these frequent addresses to the people, who never
attended to them: his majesty notices "those swarms of gentry, who through the instigation
of their wives, or to new-model and fashion their daughters (who if they were unmarried, marred
their reputations, and if married, lost them), did neglect their country hospitality, and cumber
the city, a general nuisance to the kingdom."--He addressed the Star Chamber to regulate "the
exorbitancy of the new buildings about the city, which were but a shelter for those who, when
they had spent their estates in coaches, lacqueys, and fine clothes like Frenchmen, lived miserably
in their houses like Italians; but the honour of the English nobility and gentry is to be hospitable
among their tenants." Once conversing on this subject, the monarch threw out that happy illustration,
which has been more than once noticed, that "Gentlemen resident on their estates were like
ships in port; their value and magnitude were felt and acknowledged; but when at a distance,
as their size seemed insignificant, so their worth and importance were not duly estimated."[239]

A manuscript writer of the times complains of the breaking up of old family establishments,
all crowding to "upstart London." "Every one strives to be a Diogenes in his house, and an
emperor in the streets; not caring if they sleep in a tub, so they may be hurried in a coach:
giving that allowance to horses and mares that formerly maintained houses full of men; pinching
many a belly to paint a few backs, and burying all the treasures of the kingdom into a few
citizens' coffers; their woods into wardrobes, their leases into laces, and their goods and
chattels into guarded coats and gaudy toys." Such is the representation of an eloquent contemporary;
and however contracted might have been his knowledge of the principles of political economy,
and of that prosperity which a wealthy nation is said to derive from its consumption of articles
of luxury, the moral effects have not altered, nor has the scene in reality greatly changed.

The government not only frequently forbade new buildings within ten miles of London, but sometimes
ordered them to be pulled down--after they had been erected for several years. Every six or
seven years proclamations were issued. In Charles the First's reign, offenders were sharply
prosecuted by a combined operation, not only against houses, but against persons.[240] Many
of the nobility and gentry, in 1632, were informed against for having resided in the city,
contrary to the late proclamation. And the Attorney-General was then fully occupied in filing
bills of indictment against them, as well as ladies, for staying in town. The following curious
"information" in the Star Chamber will serve our purpose.

The Attorney-General informs his majesty that both Elizabeth and James, by several proclamations,
had commanded that "persons of livelihood and means should reside in their counties, and not
abide or sojourn in the city of London, so that counties remain unserved." These proclamations
were renewed by Charles the First, who had observed "a greater number of nobility and gentry,
and abler sort of people, with their families, had resorted to the cities of London and Westminster,
residing there, contrary to the ancient usage of the English nation"--"by their abiding in
their several counties where their means arise, they would not only have served his majesty
according to their ranks, but by their housekeeping in those parts the meaner sort of people
formerly were guided, directed and relieved." He accuses them of wasting their estates in the
metropolis, which would employ and relieve the common people in their several counties. The
loose and disorderly people that follow them, living in and about the cities, are so numerous,
that they are not easily governed by the ordinary magistrates: mendicants increase in great
number--the prices of all commodities are highly raised, &c. The king had formerly proclaimed
that all ranks who were not connected with public offices, at the close of forty days' notice,
should resort to their several counties, and with their families continue their residence there.
And his majesty further warned them "Not to put themselves to unnecessary charge in providing
themselves to return in winter to the said cities, as it was the king's firm resolution to
withstand such great and growing evil." The information concludes with a most copious list
of offenders, among whom are a great number of nobility, and ladies and gentlemen, who were
accused of having lived in London for several months after the given warning of forty days.
It appears that most of them, to elude the grasp of the law, had contrived to make a show of
quitting the metropolis, and, after a short absence, had again returned; "and thus the service
of your majesty and your people in the several counties have been neglected and undone."

Such is the substance of this curious information, which enables us at least to collect the
ostensible motives of this singular prohibition. Proclamations had hitherto been considered
little more than the news of the morning, and three days afterwards were as much read as the
last week's newspapers. They were now, however, resolved to stretch forth the strong arm of
law, and to terrify by an example. The constables were commanded to bring in a list of the
names of strangers, and the time they proposed to fix their residence in their parishes. A
remarkable victim on this occasion was a Mr. Palmer, a Sussex gentleman, who was brought ore
tenus into the Star Chamber for disobeying the proclamation for living in the country. Palmer
was a squire of 1000l. per annum, then a considerable income. He appears to have been some
rich bachelor; for in his defence he alleged that he had never been married, never was a housekeeper,
and had no house fitting for a man of his birth to reside in, as his mansion in the country
had been burnt down within two years. These reasons appeared to his judges to aggravate rather
than extenuate his offence; and after a long reprimand for having deserted his tenants and
neighbours, they heavily fined him in one thousand pounds.[241]

The condemnation of this Sussex gentleman struck a terror through a wide circle of sojourners
in the metropolis. I find accounts, pathetic enough, of their "packing away on all sides for
fear of the worst;" and gentlemen "grumbling that they should be confined to their houses:"
and this was sometimes backed too by a second proclamation, respecting "their wives and families,
and also widows," which was "durus sermo to the women. It is nothing pleasing to all," says
the letter-writer, "but least of all to the women." "To encourage gentlemen to live more willingly
in the country," says another letter-writer, "all game-fowl, as pheasants, partridges, ducks,
as also hares, are this day by proclamation forbidden to be dressed or eaten in any inn." Here
we find realized the argument of Mr. Justice Best in favour of the game-laws.

It is evident that this severe restriction must have produced great inconvenience to certain
persons who found a residence in London necessary for their pursuits. This appears from the
manuscript diary of an honest antiquary, Sir Symonds D'Ewes; he has preserved an opinion which,
no doubt, was spreading fast, that such prosecutions of the Attorney-General were a violation
of the liberty of the subject. "Most men wondered at Mr. Noy, the Attorney-General, being accounted
a great lawyer, that so strictly took away men's liberties at one blow, confining them to reside
at their own houses, and not permitting them freedom to live where they pleased within the
king's dominions. I was myself a little startled upon the first coming out of the proclamation;
but having first spoken with the Lord Coventry, Lord Keeper of the Great Seal, at Islington,
when I visited him; and afterwards with Sir William Jones, one of the King's Justices of the
Bench, about my condition and residence at the said town of Islington, and they both agreeing
that I was not within the letter of the proclamation, nor the intention of it neither, I rested
satisfied, and thought myself secure, laying in all my provisions for housekeeping for the
year ensuing, and never imagined myself to be in danger, till this unexpected censure of Mr.
Palmer passed in the Star Chamber; so, having advised with my friends, I resolved for a remove,
being much troubled not only with my separation from Recordes, but with my wife, being great
with child, fearing a winter journey might be dangerous to her."[242] He left Islington and
the records in the Tower to return to his country-seat, to the great disturbance of his studies.

It is, perhaps, difficult to assign the cause of this marked anxiety of the government for
the severe restriction of the limits of the metropolis, and the prosecution of the nobility
and gentry to compel a residence on their estates. Whatever were the motives, they were not
peculiar to the existing sovereign, but remained transmitted from cabinet to cabinet, and were
even renewed under Charles the Second. At a time when the plague often broke out, a close and
growing metropolis might have been considered to be a great evil; a terror expressed by the
manuscript-writer before quoted, complaining of "this deluge of building, that we shall be
all poisoned with breathing in one another's faces." The police of the metropolis was long
imbecile, notwithstanding their "strong watches and guards" set at times; and bodies of the
idle and the refractory often assumed some mysterious title, and were with difficulty governed.
We may conceive the state of the police, when "London apprentices," growing in number and insolence,
frequently made attempts on Bridewell, or pulled down houses. One day the citizens, in proving
some ordnance, terrified the whole court of James the First with a panic that there was "a
rising in the city." It is possible that the government might have been induced to pursue this
singular conduct, for I do not know that it can be paralleled, of pulling down new-built houses
by some principle of political economy which remains to be explained, or ridiculed, by our
modern adepts. It would hardly be supposed that the present subject may be enlivened by a poem,
the elegance and freedom of which may even now be admired. It is a great literary curiosity,
and its length may be excused for several remarkable points.

  AN ODE,

  BY SIR RICHARD FANSHAW,

Upon Occasion of his Majesty's Proclamation in the Year 1630, commanding the Gentry to reside
upon their Estates in the Country.

  Now war is all the world about,
  And everywhere Erinnys reigns;
  Or of the torch so late put out
                        The stench remains.
  Holland for many years hath been
  Of Christian tragedies the stage,
  Yet seldom hath she played a scene
                        Of bloodier rage:
  And France, that was not long compos'd,
  With civil drums again resounds,
  And ere the old are fully clos'd,
                        Receives new wounds.
  The great Gustavus in the west
  Plucks the imperial eagle's wing,
  Than whom the earth did ne'er invest
                        A fiercer king.
  Only the island which we sow,
  A world without the world so far,
  From present wounds, it cannot show
                        An ancient scar.
  White peace, the beautifull'st of things,
  Seems here her everlasting rest
  To fix and spread the downy wings
                        Over the nest.
  As when great Jove, usurping reign,
  From the plagued world did her exile,
  And tied her with a golden chain
                        To one blest isle,
  Which in a sea of plenty swam,
  And turtles sang on every bough,
  A safe retreat to all that came,
                        As ours is now;
  Yet we, as if some foe were here,
  Leave the despised fields to clowns,
  And come to save ourselves, as 'twere
                        In walled towns.
  Hither we bring wives, babes, rich clothes,
  And gems--till now my soveraign
  The growing evil doth oppose:
                        Counting in vain
  His care preserves us from annoy
  Of enemies his realms to invade,
  Unless he force us to enjoy
                        The peace he made,
  To roll themselves in envied leisure;
  He therefore sends the landed heirs,
  Whilst he proclaims not his own pleasure
                      So much was theirs.
  The sap and blood of the land, which fled
  Into the root, and choked the heart,
  Are bid their quick'ning power to spread
                         Through every part.
  O 'twas an act, not for my muse
  To celebrate, nor the dull age,
  Until the country air infuse
                           A purer rage.
  And if the fields as thankful prove
  For benefits received, as seed,
  They will to 'quite so great a love
                           A Virgil breed.
  Nor let the gentry grudge to go
  Into those places whence they grew,
  But think them blest they may do so.
                          Who would pursue
  The smoky glory of the town,
  That may go till his native earth,
  And by the shining fire sit down
                         Of his own hearth,
  Free from the griping scrivener's bands,
  And the more biting mercer's books;
  Free from the bait of oiled hands,
                         And painted looks?
  The country too even chops for rain;
  You that exhale it by your power,
  Let the fat drops fall down again
                         In a full shower.
  And you bright beauties of the time,
  That waste yourselves here in a blaze,
  Fix to your orb and proper clime
                         Your wandering rays.
  Let no dark corner of the land
  Be unembellish'd with one gem,
  And those which here too thick do stand
                         Sprinkle on them.
  Believe me, ladies, you will find
  In that sweet light more solid joys,
  More true contentment to the mind
                        Than all town-toys.
  Nor Cupid there less blood doth spill,
  But heads his shafts with chaster love,
  Not feather'd with a sparrow's quill,
                        But of a dove.
  There you shall hear the nightingale,
  The harmless syren of the wood,
  How prettily she tells a tale
                          Of rape and blood.
  The lyric lark, with all beside
  Of Nature's feather'd quire, and all
  The commonwealth of flowers in 'ts pride
                         Behold you shall.
  The lily queen, the royal rose,
  The gilly-flower, prince of the blood!
  The courtier tulip, gay in clothes,
                         The regal bud;
  The violet purple senator,
  How they do mock the pomp of state,
  And all that at the surly door
                         Of great ones wait.
  Plant trees you may, and see them shoot
  Up with your children, to be served
  To your clean boards, and the fairest fruit
                         To be preserved;
  And learn to use their several gums;
  'Tis innocence in the sweet blood
  Of cherry, apricocks, and plums,
                         To be imbrued.

FOOTNOTES:

  [238] Morning Chronicle, January 23, 1820.

  [239] A proclamation was issued in the first year of King James,
    "commanding gentlemen to depart the court and city," because it
    hinders hospitality and endangers the people near their own
    residences, "who had from such houses much comfort and ease toward
    their living." The King graciously says:--"He tooke no small
    contentment in the resort of gentlemen, and other our subjects
    coming to visit us, holding their affectionate desire to see our
    person to be a certaine testimonie of their inward love;" but he
    says he must not "give way to so great a mischiefe as the continuall
    resort may breed," and that therefore all that have no special cause
    of attendance must at once go back until the time of his coronation,
    when they may "returne until the solemnity be passed;" but only for
    that time, for if the proclamation be slighted he shall "make them
    an example of contempt if we shall finde any making stay here
    contrary to this direction." Such proclamations were from time to
    time issued, and though sometimes evaded, were frequently enforced
    by fines, so that living in London was a risk and danger to country
    gentlemen of fortune.

  [240] Rushworth, vol. ii. p. 288.

  [241] From a manuscript letter from Sir George Gresley to Sir Thomas
    Puckering, Nov. 1632.

  [242] Harl. MSS. 6. fo. 152.

ROYAL PROCLAMATIONS.

The satires and the comedies of the age have been consulted by the historian of our manners,
and the features of the times have been traced from those amusing records of folly. Daines
Barrinton enlarged this field of domestic history in his very entertaining "Observations on
the Statutes." Another source, which to me seems not to have been explored, is the proclamations
which have frequently issued from our sovereigns, and were produced by the exigencies of the times.

These proclamations or royal edicts in our country were never armed with the force of laws--only
as they enforce the execution of laws already established; and the proclamation of a British
monarch may become even an illegal act, if it be in opposition to the law of the land. Once,
indeed, it was enacted under the arbitrary government of Henry the Eighth, by the sanction
of a pusillanimous parliament, that the force of acts of parliament should be given to the
king's proclamations; and at a much later period the chancellor, Lord Ellesmere, was willing
to have advanced the king's proclamations into laws, on the sophistical maxim that "all precedents
had a time when they began;" but this chancellor argued ill, as he was told with spirit by
Lord Coke, in the presence of James the First,[243] who probably did not think so ill of the
chancellor's logic. Blackstone, to whom on this occasion I could not fail to turn, observes,
on the statute under Henry the Eighth, that it would have introduced the most despotic tyranny,
and must have proved fatal to the liberties of this kingdom, had it not been luckily repealed
in the minority of his successor, whom he elsewhere calls an amiable prince--all our young
princes, we discover, were amiable! Blackstone has not recorded the subsequent attempt of the
lord chancellor under James the First, which tended to raise proclamations to the nature of
an ukase of the autocrat of both the Russias. It seems that our national freedom, notwithstanding
our ancient constitution, has had several narrow escapes.

Royal proclamations, however, in their own nature are innocent enough; for since the manner,
time, and circumstances of putting laws in execution must frequently be left to the discretion
of the executive magistrate, a proclamation that is not adverse to existing laws need not create
any alarm; the only danger they incur is that they seem never to have been attended to, and
rather testified the wishes of the government than the compliance of the subjects. They were
not laws, and were therefore considered as sermons or pamphlets, or anything forgotten in a
week's time!

These proclamations are frequently alluded to by the letter-writers of the times among the
news of the day, but usually their royal virtue hardly kept them alive beyond the week. Some
on important subjects are indeed noticed in our history. Many indications of the situation
of affairs, the feelings of the people, and the domestic history of our nation, may be drawn
from these singular records. I have never found them to exist in any collected form, and they
have been probably only accidentally preserved.[244]

The proclamations of every sovereign would characterize his reign, and open to us some of the
interior operations of the cabinet. The despotic will, yet vacillating conduct of Henry the
Eighth, towards the close of his reign, may be traced in a proclamation to abolish the translations
of the scriptures, and even the reading of Bibles by the people; commanding all printers of
English books and pamphlets to affix their names to them, and forbidding the sale of any English
books printed abroad.[245] When the people were not suffered to publish their opinions at home,
all the opposition flew to foreign presses, and their writings were then smuggled into the
country in which they ought to have been printed. Hence, many volumes printed in a foreign
type at this period are found in our collections. The king shrunk in dismay from that spirit
of reformation which had only been a party business with him, and making himself a pope, decided
that nothing should be learnt but what he himself deigned to teach!

The antipathies and jealousies which our populace too long indulged, by their incivilities
to all foreigners, are characterised by a proclamation issued by Mary, commanding her subjects
to behave themselves peaceably towards the strangers coming with King Philip; that noblemen
and gentlemen should warn their servants to refrain from "strife and contention, either by
outward deeds, taunting words, unseemly countenance, by mimicking them, &c." The punishment
not only "her grace's displeasure, but to be committed to prison without bail or mainprise."

The proclamations of Edward the Sixth curiously exhibit the unsettled state of the reformation,
where the rites and ceremonies of Catholicism were still practised by the new religionists,
while an opposite party, resolutely bent on an eternal separation from Rome, were avowing doctrines
which afterwards consolidated themselves into puritanism, and while others were hatching up
that demoralising fanaticism which subsequently shocked the nation with those monstrous sects,
the indelible, disgrace of our country! In one proclamation the king denounces to the people
"those who despise the sacrament by calling it idol, or such other vile name." Another is against
such "as innovate any ceremony," and who are described as "certain private preachers and other
laiemen, who rashly attempt of their own and singular wit and mind, not only to persuade the
people from the old and accustomed rites and ceremonies, but also themselves bring in new and
strange orders according to their phantasies. The which, as it is an evident token of pride
and arrogancy, so it tendeth both to confusion and disorder." Another proclamation, to press
"a godly conformity throughout his realm," where we learn the following curious fact, of "divers
unlearned and indiscreet priests of a devilish mind and intent, teaching that a man may forsake
his wife and marry another, his first wife yet living; likewise that the wife may do the same
to the husband. Others, that a man may have two wives or more at once, for that these things
are not prohibited by God's law, but by the Bishop of Rome's law; so that by such evil and
fantastical opinions some have not been afraid indeed to marry and keep two wives." Here, as
in the bud, we may unfold those subsequent scenes of our story which spread out in the following
century; the branching out of the non-conformists into their various sects; and the indecent
haste of our reformed priesthood, who, in their zeal to cast off the yoke of Rome, desperately
submitted to the liberty of having "two wives or more!" There is a proclamation to abstain
from flesh on Fridays and Saturdays; exhorted on the principle, not only that "men should abstain
on those days, and forbear their pleasures and the meats wherein they have more delight, to
the intent to subdue their bodies to the soul and spirit, but also for worldly policy. To use
fish, for the benefit of the commonwealth, and profit of many who be fishers and men using
that trade, unto the which this realm, in every part environed with the seas, and so plentiful
of fresh waters, be increased the nourishment of the land by saving flesh." It did not seem
to occur to the king in council that the butchers might have had cause to petition against
this monopoly of two days in the week granted to the fishmongers; and much less, that it was
better to let the people eat flesh or fish as suited their conveniency. In respect to the religious
rite itself, it was evidently not considered as an essential point of faith, since the king
enforces it on the principle, "for the profit and commodity of his realm." Burnet has made
a just observation on religious fasts.[246]

A proclamation against excess of apparel, in the reign of Elizabeth, and renewed many years
after, shows the luxury of dress, which was indeed excessive.[247] There is a curious one against
the iconoclasts, or image-breakers and picture-destroyers, for which the antiquary will hold
her in high reverence. Her majesty informs us, that "several persons, ignorant, malicious,
or covetous, of late years, have spoiled and broken ancient monuments, erected only to show
a memory to posterity, and not to nourish any kind of superstition." The queen laments that
what is broken and spoiled would be now hard to recover, but advises her good people to repair
them; and commands them in future to desist from committing such injuries. A more extraordinary
circumstance than the proclamation itself was the manifestation of her majesty's zeal, in subscribing
her name with her own hand to every proclamation dispersed throughout England. These image-breakers
first appeared in Elizabeth's reign; it was afterwards that they flourished in all the perfection
of their handicraft, and have contrived that these monuments of art shall carry down to posterity
the memory of their SHAME and of their age. These image-breakers, so famous in our history,
had already appeared under Henry the Eighth, and continued their practical zeal, in spite of
proclamations and remonstrances, till they had accomplished their work. In 1641 an order was
published by the Commons, that they should "take away all scandalous pictures out of churches:"
but more was intended than was expressed; and we are told that the people did not at first
carry their barbarous practice against all Art to the lengths which they afterwards did, till
they were instructed by private information! Dowsing's Journal has been published, and shows
what the order meant! He was their giant destroyer! Such are the Machiavelian secrets of revolutionary
governments; they give a public order in moderate words, but the secret one, for the deeds,
is that of extermination! It was this sort of men who discharged their prisoners by giving
a secret sign to lead them to their execution!

The proclamations of James the First, by their number, are said to have sunk their value with
the people.[248] He was fond of giving them gentle advice; and it is said by Wilson that there
was an intention to have this king's printed proclamations bound up in a volume, that better
notice might be taken of the matters contained in them. There is more than one to warn the
people against "speaking too freely of matters above their reach," prohibiting all "undutiful
speeches." I suspect that many of these proclamations are the composition of the king's own
hand; he was often his own secretary. There is an admirable one against private duels and challenges.
The curious one respecting Cowell's "Interpreter" is a sort of royal review of some of the
arcana of state: I refer to the quotation.[249]

I will preserve a passage of a proclamation "against excess of lavish and licentious speech."
James was a king of words!

   "Although the commixture of nations, confluence of ambassadors, and
   the relation which the affairs of our kingdoms have had towards the
   business and interests of foreign states have caused, during our
   regiment (government) a greater openness and liberty of discourse,
   even concerning MATTERS OF STATE (which are no themes or subjects
   fit for vulgar persons or common meetings), than hath been in former
   times used or permitted; and although in our own nature and judgment
   we do well allow of convenient freedom of speech, esteeming any
   over-curious or restrained hands carried in that kind rather as a
   weakness, or else over-much severity of government than otherwise;
   yet for as much as it is come to our ears, by common report, that
   there is at this time a more licentious passage of lavish discourse
   and bold censure in matters of state than is fit to be suffered: We
   give this warning, &c., to take heed how they intermeddle by pen or
   speech with causes of state and secrets of empire, either at home or
   abroad, but contain themselves within that modest and reverent regard
   of matters above their reach and calling; nor to give any manner of
   applause to such discourse, without acquainting one of our privy
   council within the space of twenty-four hours."

It seems that "the bold speakers," as certain persons were then denominated, practised an old
artifice of lauding his majesty, while they severely arraigned the counsels of the cabinet;
on this James observes, "Neither let any man mistake us so much as to think that by giving
fair and specious attributes to our person, they cover the scandals which they otherwise lay
upon our government, but conceive that we make no other construction of them but as fine and
artificial glosses, the better to give passage to the rest of their imputations and scandals."

This was a proclamation in the eighteenth year of his reign; he repeated it in the nineteenth,
and he might have proceeded to "the crack of doom" with the same effect!

Rushworth, in his second volume of Historical Collections, has preserved a considerable number
of the proclamations of Charles the First, of which many are remarkable; but latterly they
mark the feverish state of his reign. One regulates access for cure of the king's evil--by
which his majesty, it appears, "hath had good success therein;" but though ready and willing
as any king or queen of this realm ever was to relieve the distresses of his good subjects,
"his majesty commands to change the seasons for his 'sacred touch' from Easter and Whitsuntide
to Easter and Michaelmas, as times more convenient for the temperature of the season," &c.
Another against "departure out of the realm without license." One to erect an office "for the
suppression of cursing and swearing," to receive the forfeitures; against "libellous and seditious
pamphlets and discourses from Scotland," framed by factious spirits, and republished in London--this
was in 1640; and Charles, at the crisis of that great insurrection in which he was to be at
once the actor and the spectator, fondly imagined that the possessors of these "scandalous"
pamphlets would bring them, as he proclaimed "to one of his majesty's justices of peace, to
be by him sent to one of his principal secretaries of state!"

On the Restoration, Charles the Second had to court his people by his domestic regulations.
He early issued a remarkable proclamation, which one would think reflected on his favourite
companions, and which strongly marks the moral disorders of those depraved and wretched times.
It is against "vicious, debauched, and profane persons!" who are thus described:--

   "A sort of men of whom we have heard much, and are sufficiently
   ashamed; who spend their time in taverns, tippling-houses and
   debauches; giving no other evidence of their affection to us but in
   drinking our health, and inveighing against all others who are not
   of their own dissolute temper; and who, in truth, have more
   discredited our cause, by the license of their manners and lives,
   than they could ever advance it by their affection or courage. We
   hope all persons of honour, or in place and authority, will so far
   assist us in discountenancing such men, that their discretion and
   shame will persuade them to reform what their conscience would not;
   and that the displeasure of good men towards them may supply what the
   laws have not, and, it may be, cannot well provide against; there
   being by the license and corruption of the times, and the depraved
   nature of man, many enormities, scandals, and impieties in practice
   and manners, which laws cannot well describe, and consequently not
   enough provide against, which may, by the example and severity of
   virtuous men, be easily discountenanced, and by degrees suppressed."

Surely the gravity and moral severity of Clarendon dictated this proclamation! which must have
afforded some mirth to the gay, debauched circle, the loose cronies of royalty!

It is curious that, in 1660, Charles the Second issued a long proclamation for the strict observance
of Lent, and alleges for it the same reason as we found in Edward the Sixth's proclamation,
"for the good it produces in the employment of fishermen" No ordinaries, taverns, &c., to make
any supper on Friday nights, either in Lent or out of Lent.

Charles the Second issued proclamations "to repress the excess of gilding of coaches and chariots,"
to restrain the waste of gold, which, as they supposed, by the excessive use of gilding, had
grown scarce. Against "the exportation and the buying and selling of gold and silver at higher
rates than in our mint," alluding to a statute made in the ninth year of Edward the Third,
called the Statute of Money. Against building in and about London and Westminster, in 1661:
"The inconveniences daily growing by increase of new buildings are, that the people increasing
in such great numbers, are not well to be governed by the wonted officers: the prices of victuals
are enhanced; the health of the subject inhabiting the cities much endangered, and many good
towns and boroughs unpeopled, and in their trades much decayed--frequent fires occasioned by
timber-buildings." It orders to build with brick and stone, "which would beautify, and make
an uniformity in the buildings; and which are not only more durable and safe against fire,
but by experience are found to be of little more if not less charge than the building with
timber." We must infer that, by the general use of timber, it had considerably risen in price,
while brick and stone not then being generally used, became as cheap as wood![250]

The most remarkable proclamations of Charles the Second are those which concern the regulations
of coffee-houses, and one for putting them down;[251] to restrain the spreading of false news,
and licentious talking of state and government, the speakers and the hearers were made alike
punishable. This was highly resented as an illegal act by the friends of civil freedom; who,
however, succeeded in obtaining the freedom of the coffee-houses, under the promise of not
sanctioning treasonable speeches. On the other side, Kennet asserted that the discontents existed
before they met at the coffee-houses, and that the proclamation was only intended to suppress
an evil which was not to be prevented. At this day we know which of those two historians exercised
the truest judgment. It was not the coffee-houses which produced political feeling, but the
reverse. Whenever government ascribes effects to a cause quite inadequate to produce them,
they are only seeking means to hide the evil which they are too weak to suppress.

FOOTNOTES:

  [243] The whole story is in 12 Co. 746. I owe this curious fact to
    the author of Eunomus, ii. 116.

  [244] A quarto volume was published by Barker, the king's printer,
    and is entitled "A Booke of Proclamations Published since the
    beginning of his Majestie's most happy Reign over England, until
    this present month of Feb. 1609." It contains 110 in all. The
    Society of Antiquaries of London possesses at the present time the
    largest and most perfect collection of royal proclamations in
    existence, brought together since the above was written. They are on
    separate broadsheets, as issued.

  [245] In 1529 the king had issued a proclamation for resisting and
    withstanding of most dampnable heresyes sowen within the realme by
    the discyples of Luther and other "heretykes, perverters of Christes
    relygyon." In June, 1530, this was followed by the proclamation "for
    dampning (or condemning) of erronious bokes and heresies, and
    prohibitinge the havinge of holy scripture translated into the
    vulgar tonges of englishe, frenche, or dutche," he notes many bookes
    "printed beyonde the see" which he will not allow, "that is to say,
    the boke called the wicked Mammona, the boke named the Obedience of
    a Christen Man, the Supplication of Beggars, and the boke called the
    Revelation of Antichrist, the Summary of Scripture, and divers other
    bokes made in the Englishe tongue," in fact all books in the
    vernacular not issued by native printers. "And that having respect
    to the malignity of this present tyme, with the inclination of
    people to erronious opinions, the translation of the newe testament
    and the old into the vulgar tonge of englysshe, shulde rather be the
    occasion of contynuance or increase of errours amonge the said
    people, than any benefit or commodite toward the weale of their
    soules," and he determines therefore that the scriptures shall only
    be expounded to the people as heretofore, and that these books "be
    clerely extermynate and exiled out of this realme of Englande for
    ever."

  [246] History of the Reformation, vol. ii. p. 96, folio.

  [247] In June, 1574, the queen issued from her "Manour of Greenwich"
    this proclamation against "excesse of apparel, and the superfluitie
    of unnecessarye foreign wares thereto belonginge," which is declared
    to have "growen by sufferance to such an extremetie, that the
    manifest decay, not only of a great part of the wealth of the whole
    realme generally, is like to follow by bringing into the realme such
    superfluities of silkes, clothes of gold, sylver, and other most
    vaine devices, of so greate coste for the quantitie thereof; as of
    necessitie the moneyes and treasure of the realme is, and must be,
    yeerely conveyed out of the same." This is followed by three folio
    leaves minutely describing what may be worn on the dresses of every
    grade of persons; descending to such minutiæ as to note what classes
    are not to be allowed to put lace, or fringes, or borders of velvet
    upon their gowns and petticoats, under pain of fine or punishment,
    because improper for their station, and above their means. The order
    appears to have been evaded, for it was followed by another in
    February, 1580, which recapitulates these prohibitions, and renders
    them more stringent.

  [248] The list of a very few of those issued at the early part of
    his reign may illustrate this. In 1604 was published a "Proclamation
    for the true winding or folding of wools," as well as one "For the
    due regulation of prices of victuals within the verge of Kent." In
    1605, "Against certain calumnious surmises concerning the church
    government of Scotland." In 1608, "A proclamation against making
    starch." In 1612, "That none buy or sell any bullion of gold and
    silver at higher prices than is appointed to be paid for the same."
    Another against dying silk with slip or any corrupt stuff. In
    1613, for "Prohibiting the untimely bringing in of wines," as well
    as for "Prohibiting the publishing of any reports or writings of
    duels," and also "The importation of felt hats or caps." In 1615,
    "Prohibiting the making of glass with timber or wood," because "of
    late yeeres the waste of wood and timber hath been exceeding great
    and intolerable, by the glassehouses and glasseworkes of late in
    divers parts erected," and which his majesty fears may have the
    effect of depriving England of timber to construct her navy!

  [249] I have noticed it in Calamities of Authors.

  [250] Lilly, the astrologer, in his memoirs, notes that Thomas
    Howard, Earl of Arundel (the famous collector of the Arundelian
    marbles now at Oxford), "brought over the new way of building with
    brick in the city, greatly to the safety of the city, and
    preservation of the wood of this nation."

  [251] This proclamation "for the suppression of coffee-houses" bears
    date December 20, 1675, and is stated to have been issued because
    "the multitude of coffee-houses, lately set up and kept within this
    kingdom, and the great resort of idle and dissipated persons to
    them, have produced very evil and dangerous effects," particularly
    in spreading of rumours, and inducing tradesmen to neglect their
    calling, tending to the danger of the commonweal, by the idle waste
    of time and money.

TRUE SOURCES OF SECRET HISTORY.

This is a subject which has been hitherto but imperfectly comprehended even by some historians
themselves; and has too often incurred the satire, and even the contempt, of those volatile
spirits who play about the superficies of truth, wanting the industry to view it on more than
one side, and those superficial readers who imagine that every tale is told when it is written.

Secret history is the supplement of history itself, and is its great corrector; and the combination
of secret with public history has in itself a perfection, which each taken separately has not.
The popular historian composes a plausible rather than an accurate tale; researches too fully
detailed would injure the just proportions, or crowd the bold design, of the elegant narrative;
and facts, presented as they occurred, would not adapt themselves to those theoretical writers
of history who arrange events not in a natural, but in a systematic order. But in secret history
we are more busied in observing what passes than in being told of it. We are transformed into
the contemporaries of the writers, while we are standing on the "vantage ground" of their posterity;
and thus what to them appeared ambiguous, to us has become unquestionable; what was secret
to them has been confided to us. They mark the beginnings, and we the ends. From the fulness
of their accounts we recover much which had been lost to us in the general views of history,
and it is by this more intimate acquaintance with persons and circumstances that we are enabled
to correct the less distinct, and sometimes the fallacious appearances in the page of the popular
historian. He who only views things in masses will have no distinct notion of any one particular;
he may be a fanciful or a passionate historian, but he is not the historian who will enlighten
while he charms.

But as secret history appears to deal in minute things, its connexion with great results is
not usually suspected. The circumstantiality of its story, the changeable shadows of its characters,
the redundance of its conversations, and the many careless superfluities which egotism or vanity
may throw out, seem usually confounded with that small-talk familiarly termed gossiping. We
may discover the value of these pictures of human nature, with which secret history abounds,
by an observation which occurred between two statesmen in office. Lord Raby, our ambassador,
apologised to Lord Bolingbroke, then secretary of state, for troubling him with the minuter
circumstances which occurred in his conferences; in reply, the minister requests the ambassador
to continue the same manner of writing, and alleges an excellent reason: "Those minute circumstances
give very great light to the general scope and design of the persons negotiated with. And I
own that nothing pleases me more in that valuable collection of the Cardinal D'Ossat's letters,
than the naïve descriptions which he gives of the looks, gestures, and even tones of voice,
of the persons he conferred with." I regret to have to record the opinions of another noble
author, who recently has thrown out some degrading notions of secret history, and particularly
of the historians. I would have silently passed by a vulgar writer, superficial, prejudiced,
and uninformed, but as so many are yet deficient in correct notions of secret history, it is
but justice that their representative should be heard before they are condemned.

His lordship says, that "Of late the appetite for Remains of all kinds has surprisingly increased.
A story repeated by the Duchess of Portsmouth's waiting-woman to Lord Rochester's valet forms
the subject of investigation for a philosophical historian; and you may hear of an assembly
of scholars and authors discussing the validity of a piece of scandal invented by a maid of
honour more than two centuries ago, and repeated to an obscure writer by Queen Elizabeth's
housekeeper. It is a matter of the greatest interest to see the letters of every busy trifler.
Yet who does not laugh at such men?" This is the attack! but as if some half truths, like light
through the cranny in a dark room, had just darted in a stream of atoms over this scoffer at
secret history, he suddenly views his object with a very different appearance--for his lordship
justly concludes that "It must be confessed, however, that knowledge of this kind is very entertaining;
and here and there among the rubbish we find hints that may give the philosopher a clue to
important facts, and afford to the moralist a better analysis of the human mind than a whole
library of metaphysics!" The philosopher may well abhor all intercourse with wits! because
the faculty of judgment is usually quiescent with them; and in their orgasm they furiously
decry what in their sober senses they as eagerly laud! Let me inform his lordship, that "the
waiting-woman and the valet" of eminent persons are sometimes no unimportant personages in
history. By the Mémoires de Mons. de la Porte, premier valet-de-chambre de Louis XIV., we learn
what before "the valet" wrote had not been known--the shameful arts which Mazarin allowed to
be practised, to give a bad education to the prince, and to manage him by depraving his tastes.
Madame de Motteville, in her Memoirs, "the waiting lady" of our Henrietta, has preserved for
our own English history some facts which have been found so essential to the narrative, that
they are referred to by our historians. In Gui Joly, the humble dependant of Cardinal de Retz,
we discover an unconscious but a useful commentator on the memoirs of his master; and the most
affecting personal anecdotes of Charles the First have been preserved by Thomas Herbert, his
gentleman in waiting; Cléry, the valet of Louis the Sixteenth, with pathetic faithfulness,
has shown us the man in the monarch whom he served!

Of SECRET HISTORY there are obviously two species; it is positive, or it is relative. It is
positive, when the facts are first given to the world; a sort of knowledge which can only be
drawn from our own personal experience, or from contemporary documents preserved in their manuscript
state in public or in private collections; or it is relative, in proportion to the knowledge
of those to whom it is communicated, and will be more or less valued according to the acquisitions
of the reader; and this inferior species of secret history is drawn from rare and obscure books
and other published authorities, often as scarce as manuscripts.

Some experience I have had in those literary researches, where cusiosity, ever wakeful and
vigilant, discovers among contemporary manuscripts new facts; illustrations of old ones; and
sometimes detects, not merely by conjecture, the concealed causes of many events; often opens
a scene in which some well-known personage is exhibited in a new character; and thus penetrates
beyond those generalising representations which satisfy the superficial, and often cover the
page of history with delusion and fiction.

It is only since the latter institution of national libraries that these immense collections
of manuscripts have been formed; with us they are an undescribable variety, usually classed
under the vague title of "state-papers."[252] The instructions of ambassadors, but more particularly
their own dispatches; charters and chronicles brown with antiquity, which preserve a world
which had been else lost for us, like the one before the deluge; series upon series of private
correspondence, among which we discover the most confidential communications, designed by the
writers to have been destroyed by the hand which received them; memoirs of individuals by themselves
or by their friends, such as are now published by the pomp of vanity, or the faithlessness
of their possessors; and the miscellaneous collections formed by all kinds of persons, characteristic
of all countries and of all eras, materials for the history of man!--records of the force or
of the feebleness of the human understanding, and still the monuments of their passions.

The original collectors of these dispersed manuscripts were a race of ingenious men, silent
benefactors of mankind, to whom justice has not yet been fully awarded; but in their fervour
of accumulation, everything in a manuscript state bore its spell; acquisition was the sole
point aimed at by our early collectors, and to this these searching spirits sacrificed their
fortunes, their ease, and their days; but life would have been too short to have decided on
the intrinsic value of the manuscripts flowing in a stream to the collectors; and suppression,
even of the disjointed reveries of madmen, or the sensible madness of projectors, might have
been indulging a capricious taste, or what has proved more injurious to historical pursuits,
that party-feeling which has frequently annihilated the memorials of their adversaries.[253]

These manuscript collections now assume a formidable appearance. A toilsome march over these
"Alps rising over Alps!" a voyage in "a sea without a shore!" has turned away most historians
from their severer duties; those who have grasped at early celebrity have been satisfied to
have given a new form to, rather than contributed to the new matter of history. The very sight
of these masses of history has terrified some modern historians. When Père Daniel undertook
a history of France, the learned Boivin, the king's librarian, opened for his inspection an
immense treasure of charters, and another of royal autograph letters, and another of private
correspondence; treasures reposing in fourteen hundred folios! The modern historian passed
two hours impatiently looking over them, but frightened at another plunge into the gulf, this
Curtius of history would not immolate himself for his country! He wrote a civil letter to the
librarian for his "supernumerary kindness," but insinuated that he could write a very readable
history without any further aid of such paperasses or "paper-rubbish." Père Daniel, therefore,
"quietly sat down to his history," copying others--a compliment which was never returned by
any one: but there was this striking novelty in his "readable history," that according to the
accurate computation of Count Boulainvilliers, Père Daniel's history of France contains ten
thousand blunders! The same circumstance has been told me by a living historian of the late
Gilbert Stuart; who, on some manuscript volumes of letters being pointed out to him when composing
his history of Scotland, confessed that "what was already printed was more than he was able
to read!" and thus much for his theoretical history, written to run counter to another theoretical
history, being Stuart versus Robertson! They equally depend on the simplicity of their readers,
and the charms of style! Another historian, Anquetil, the author of L'Esprit de la Ligue, has
described his embarrassment at an inspection of the contemporary manuscripts of that period.
After thirteen years of researches to glean whatever secret history printed books afforded,
the author, residing in the country, resolved to visit the royal library at Paris. Monsieur
Melot receiving him with that kindness which is one of the official duties of the public librarian
towards the studious, opened the cabinets in which were deposited the treasures of French history.--"This
is what you require! come here at all times, and you shall be attended!" said the librarian
to the young historian, who stood by with a sort of shudder, while he opened cabinet after
cabinet. The intrepid investigator repeated his visits, looking over the mass as chance directed,
attacking one side, and then flying to another. The historian, who had felt no weariness during
thirteen years among printed books, discovered that he was now engaged in a task apparently
always beginning, and never ending! The "Esprit de la Ligue" was however enriched by labours
which at the moment appeared so barren.

The study of these paperasses is not perhaps so disgusting as the impatient Père Daniel imagined;
there is a literary fascination in looking over the same papers which the great characters
of history once held and wrote on; catching from themselves their secret sentiments; and often
detecting so many of their unrecorded actions! By habit the toil becomes light; and with a
keen inquisitive spirit even delightful! For what is more delightful to the curious than to
make fresh discoveries every day? Addison has a true and pleasing observation on such pursuits.
"Our employments are converted into amusements, so that even in those objects which were indifferent,
or even displeasing to us, the mind not only gradually loses its aversion, but conceives a
certain fondness and affection for them." Addison illustrates this case by one of the greatest
geniuses of the age, who by habit took incredible pleasure in searching into rolls and records,
till he preferred them to Virgil and Cicero! The faculty of curiosity is as fervid, and even
as refined in its search after truth, as that of taste in the objects of imagination; and the
more it is indulged, the more exquisitely it is enjoyed!

The popular historians of England and of France have, in truth, made little use of manuscript
researches. Life is very short for long histories; and those who rage with an avidity of fame
or profit will gladly taste the fruit which they cannot mature. Researches too remotely sought
after, or too slowly acquired, or too fully detailed, would be so many obstructions in the
smooth texture of a narrative. Our theoretical historians write from some particular and preconceived
result; unlike Livy, and De Thou, and Machiavel, who describe events in their natural order,
these cluster them together by the fanciful threads of some political or moral theory, by which
facts are distorted, displaced, and sometimes altogether omitted! One single original document
has sometimes shaken into dust their Palladian edifice of history. At the moment Hume was sending
some sheets of his history to press, Murdin's State Papers appeared. And we are highly amused
and instructed by a letter of our historian to his rival, Robertson, who probably found himself
often in the same forlorn situation. Our historian discovered in that collection what compelled
him to retract his preconceived system--he hurries to stop the press, and paints his confusion
and his anxiety with all the ingenuous simplicity of his nature. "We are all in the wrong!"
he exclaims. Of Hume I have heard that certain manuscripts at the State Paper Office had been
prepared for his inspection during a fortnight, but he never could muster courage to pay his
promised visit. Satisfied with the common accounts, and the most obvious sources of history,
when librarian at the Advocates' Library, where yet may be examined the books he used, marked
by his hand, he spread the volumes about the sofa, from which he rarely rose to pursue obscure
inquiries, or delay by fresh difficulties the page which every day was growing under his charming
pen. A striking proof of his careless happiness I discovered in his never referring to the
perfect edition of "Whitelocke's Memorials" of 1732, but to the old truncated and faithless
one of 1682. He once projected a collection of original historical letters, for which he had
prepared a preface, where I find the following passage:--"It is a more important service to
the public to contribute something not before known to the general fund of history, than to
give new form and colour to what we are already possessed of, by superadding refinement and
ornament, which too often tend to disguise the real state of the facts; a fault not to be atoned
for by the pomp of style, or even the fine eloquence of the historian." This was an oblique
stroke aimed at Robertson, to whom Birch had generously opened the stores of history, for the
Scotch historian had needed all his charity; but Robertson's attractive inventions and highly-finished
composition seduce the public taste; and we may forgive the latent spark of envy in the honest
feelings of the man, who was profoundly skilled in delving in the native beds of ore, but not
in fashioning it; and whose own neglected historical works, constructed on the true principles
of secret history, we may often turn over to correct the erroneous, the prejudiced, and the
artful accounts of those who have covered their faults by "the pomp of style, and the eloquence
of the historian."

The large manuscript collections of original documents, from whence may be drawn what I have
called positive secret history, are, as I observed, comparatively of modern existence. Formerly
they were widely dispersed in private hands; and the nature of such sources of historic discovery
but rarely occurred to our writers. Even had they sought them, their access must have been
partial and accidental. Lord Hardwicke has observed, that there are still many untouched manuscript
collections within these kingdoms, which, through the ignorance or inattention of their owners,
are condemned to dust and obscurity; but how valuable and essential they may be to the interests
of authentic history and of sacred truth, cannot be more strikingly demonstrated than in the
recent publications of the Marlborough and the Shrewsbury Papers by Archdeacon Coxe.[254] The
editor was fully authorised to observe, "It is singular that those transactions should either
have been passed over in silence, or imperfectly represented by most of our national historians."
Our modern history would have been a mere political romance, without the astonishing picture
of William and his ministers, exhibited in those unquestionable documents. Burnet was among
the first of our modern historians who showed the world the preciousness of such materials,
in his "History of the Reformation," which he largely drew from the Cottonian collection. Our
early historians only repeated a tale ten times told. Milton, who wanted not for literary diligence,
had no fresh stores to open for his "History of England;" while Hume despatches, comparatively
in a few pages, a subject which has afforded to the fervent diligence of my learned friend
Sharon Turner volumes precious to the antiquary, the lawyer, and the philosopher.

To illustrate my idea of the usefulness and of the absolute necessity of SECRET HISTORY, I
fix first on a public event, and secondly on a public character; both remarkable in our own
modern history, and both serving to expose the fallacious appearances of popular history by
authorities indisputably genuine. The event is the Restoration of Charles the Second; and the
character is that of Mary, the queen of William the Third.

In history the Restoration of Charles appears in all its splendour--the king is joyfully received
at Dover, and the shore is covered by his subjects on their knees--crowds of the great hurry
to Canterbury--the army is drawn up, in number and with a splendour that had never been equalled--his
enthusiastic reception is on his birthday, for that was the lucky day fixed on for his entrance
into the metropolis--in a word, all that is told in history describes a monarch the most powerful
and the most happy. One of the tracts of the day, entitled "England's Triumph," in the mean
quaintness of the style of the times, tells us that "The soldiery, who had hitherto made clubs
trump, resolve now to enthrone the king of hearts." Turn to the faithful memorialist, who so
well knew the secrets of the king's heart, and who was himself an actor behind the curtain;
turn to Clarendon, in his own Life, and we shall find that the power of the king was then as
dubious as when he was an exile; and his feelings were so much racked, that he had nearly resolved
on a last flight.

Clarendon, in noticing the temper and spirit of that time, observes, "Whoever reflects upon
all this composition of contradictory wishes and expectations, must confess that the king was
not yet the master of the kingdom, nor his authority and security such as the general noise
and acclamation, the bells and the bonfires, proclaimed it to be."--"The first mortification
the king met with as soon as he arrived at Canterbury, within three hours after he landed at
Dover." Clarendon then relates how many the king found there, who, while they waited with joy
to kiss his hand, also came with importunate solicitations for themselves; forced him to give
them present audience, in which they reckoned up the insupportable losses undergone by themselves
or their fathers; demanding some grant, or promise of such or such offices; some even for more!
"pressing for two or three with such confidence and importunity, and with such tedious discourses,
that the king was extremely nauseated with their suits, though his modesty knew not how to
break from them; that he no sooner got into his chamber, which for some hours he was not able
to do, than he lamented the condition to which he found he must be subject; and did, in truth,
from that minute, contract such a prejudice against some of those persons." But a greater mortification
was to follow, and one which had nearly thrown the king into despair.

General Monk had from the beginning to this instant acted very mysteriously, never corresponding
with nor answering a letter of the king's, so that his majesty was frequently doubtful whether
the general designed to act for himself or for the king: an ambiguous conduct which I attribute
to the power his wife had over him, who was in the opposite interest. The general, in his rough
way, presented him a large paper, with about seventy names for his privy council, of which
not more than two were acceptable. "The king," says Clarendon, "was in more than ordinary confusion,
for he knew not well what to think of the general, in whose absolute power he was--so that
at this moment his majesty was almost alarmed at the demand and appearance of things." The
general afterwards undid this unfavourable appearance, by acknowledging that the list was drawn
up by his wife, who had made him promise to present it; but he permitted his majesty to act
as he thought proper. At that moment General Monk was more king than Charles.

We have not yet concluded. When Charles met the army at Blackheath, 50,000 strong, "he knew
well the ill constitution of the army, the distemper and murmuring that was in it, and how
many diseases and convulsions their infant loyalty was subject to; that how united soever their
inclinations and acclamations seemed to be at Blackheath, their affections were not the same--and
the very countenances there of many officers, as well as soldiers, did sufficiently manifest
that they were drawn thither to a service they were not delighted in. The old soldiers had
little regard for their new officers; and it quickly appeared, by the select and affected mixtures
of sullen and melancholic parties of officers and soldiers."--And then the chancellor of human
nature adds, "And in this melancholic and perplexed condition the king and all his hopes stood,
when he appeared most gay and exalted, and wore a pleasantness in his face that became him,
and looked like as full an assurance of his security as was possible to put on." It is imagined
that Louis the Eighteenth would be the ablest commentator on this piece of secret history,
and add another twin to Pierre de Saint Julien's "Gemelles ou Pareiles," an old French treatise
of histories which resemble one another: a volume so scarce, that I have never met with it.

Burnet informs us, that when Queen Mary held the administration of government during the absence
of William, it was imagined by some, that as "every woman of sense loved to be meddling, they
concluded that she had but a small portion of it, because she lived so abstracted from all
affairs." He praises her exemplary behaviour; "regular in her devotions, much in her closet,
read a great deal, was often busy at work, and seemed to employ her time and thoughts in anything
rather than matters of state. Her conversation was lively and obliging; everything in her was
easy and natural. The king told the Earl of Shrewsbury, that though he could not hit on the
right way of pleasing England, he was confident she would, and that we should all be very happy
under her." Such is the miniature of the queen which Burnet offers; we see nothing but her
tranquillity, her simplicity, and her carelessness, amidst the important transactions passing
under her eye; but I lift the curtain from a larger picture. The distracted state amidst which
the queen lived, the vexations, the secret sorrows, the agonies and the despair of Mary in
the absence of William, nowhere appear in history! and as we see, escaped the ken of the Scotch
bishop! They were reserved for the curiosity and instruction of posterity; and were found by
Dalrymple, in the letters of Mary to her husband, in King William's cabinet. It will be well
to place under the eye of the reader the suppressed cries of this afflicted queen at the time
when "everything in her was so easy and natural, employing her time and thoughts in anything
rather than matters of state--often busy at work!"

I shall not dwell on the pangs of the queen for the fate of William--or her deadly suspicions
that many were unfaithful about her; a battle lost might have been fatal; a conspiracy might
have undone what even a victory had obtained; the continual terrors she endured were such,
that we might be at a loss to determine who suffered most, those who had been expelled from,
or those who had ascended the throne.

So far was the queen from not "employing her thoughts" on "matters of state," that every letter,
usually written towards evening, chronicles the conflicts of the day; she records not only
events, but even dialogues and personal characteristics; hints her suspicions, and multiplies
her fears; her attention was incessant--"I never write but what I think others do not;" and
her terrors were as ceaseless,--"I pray God send you back quickly, for I see all breaking out
into flames." The queen's difficulties were not eased by a single confidential intercourse.
On one occasion she observes, "As I do not know what I ought to speak, and when not, I am as
silent as can be." "I ever fear not doing well, and trust to what nobody says but you. It seems
to me that every one is afraid of themselves.--I am very uneasy in one thing, which is want
of somebody to speak my mind freely to, for it's a great constraint to think and be silent;
and there is so much matter, that I am one of Solomon's fools, who am ready to burst. I must
tell you again how Lord Monmouth endeavours to frighten me, and indeed things have but a melancholy
prospect." She had indeed reasons to fear Lord Monmouth, who, it appears, divulged all the
secrets of the royal councils to Major Wildman, who was one of our old republicans; and, to
spread alarm in the privy council, conveyed in lemon-juice all their secrets to France, often
on the very day they had passed in council! They discovered the fact, and every one suspected
the other as the traitor! Lord Lincoln even once assured her, that "the Lord President and
all in general, who are in trust, were rogues." Her council was composed of factions, and the
queen's suspicions were rather general than particular: for she observes on them, "Till now
I thought you had given me wrong characters of men; but now I see they answer my expectation
of being as little of a mind as of a body."--For a final extract, take this full picture of
royal misery--"I must see company on my set days; I must play twice a week; nay, I must laugh
and talk, though never so much against my will: I believe I dissemble very ill to those who
know me; at least, it is a great constraint to myself, yet I must endure it. All my motions
are so watched, and all I do so observed, that if I eat less, or speak less, or look more grave,
all is lost in the opinion of the world; so that I have this misery added to that of your absence,
that I must grin when my heart is ready to break, and talk when my heart is so oppressed that
I can scarce breathe. I go to Kensington as often as I can for air; but then I never can be
quite alone, neither can I complain--that would be some ease; but I have nobody whose humour
and circumstances agree with mine enough to speak my mind freely to. Besides, I must hear of
business, which being a thing I am so new in, and so unfit for, does but break my brains the
more, and not ease my heart."

Thus different from the representation of Burnet was the actual state of Queen Mary: and I
suspect that our warm and vehement bishop had but little personal knowledge of her majesty,
notwithstanding the elaborate character of the queen which he has given in her funeral eulogium.
He must have known that she did not always sympathise with his party-feelings: for the queen
writes, "The Bishop of Salisbury has made a long thundering sermon this morning, which he has
been with me to desire to print; which I could not refuse, though I should not have ordered
it, for reasons which I told him." Burnet (whom I am very far from calling what an inveterate
Tory, Edward Earl of Oxford, does in one of his manuscript notes, "that lying Scot") unquestionably
has told many truths in his garrulous page; but the cause in which he stood so deeply engaged,
coupled to his warm sanguine temper, may have sometimes dimmed his sagacity, so as to have
caused him to have mistaken, as in the present case, a mask for a face, particularly at a time
when almost every individual appears to have worn one!

Both these cases of Charles the Second and Queen Mary show the absolute necessity of researches
into secret history, to correct the appearances and the fallacies which so often deceive us
in public history.

"The appetite for Remains," as the noble author whom I have already alluded to calls it, may
then be a very wholesome one, if it provide the only materials by which our popular histories
can be corrected, and since it often infuses a freshness into a story which, after having been
copied from book to book, inspires another to tell it for the tenth time! Thus are the sources
of secret history unsuspected by the idler and the superficial, among those masses of untouched
manuscripts--that subterraneous history!--which indeed may terrify the indolent, bewilder the
inexperienced, and confound the injudicious, if they have not acquired the knowledge which
not only decides on facts and opinions, but on the authorities which have furnished them. Popular
historians have written to their readers; each with different views, but all alike form the
open documents of history; like feed advocates, they declaim, or like special pleaders, they
keep only on one side of their case: they are seldom zealous to push on their cross-examination;
for they come to gain their cause, and not to hazard it!

Time will make the present age as obsolete as the last, for our sons will cast a new light
over the ambiguous scenes which distract their fathers; they will know how some things happened
for which we cannot account; they will bear witness to how many characters we have mistaken;
they will be told many of those secrets which our contemporaries hide from us; they will pause
at the ends of our beginnings; they will read the perfect story of man, which can never be
told while it is proceeding. All this is the possession of posterity, because they will judge
without our passions; and all this we ourselves have been enabled to possess by the secret
history of the last two ages![255]

FOOTNOTES:

  [252] The large mass of important documents in the National
    State-paper Office has recently been made available to the use of
    the historic student, with the best results, and cannot fail to have
    important influence on the future historic literature of the
    country.

  [253] See what I have said of "Suppressors and Dilapidators of
    Manuscripts," vol. ii. p. 443.

  [254] The "Conway Papers" remain unpublished. From what I have
    already been favoured with the sight of, I may venture to predict
    that our history may receive from them some important accession. The
    reader may find a lively summary of the contents of these Papers in
    Horace Walpole's account of his visit to Ragley, in his letter to
    George Montague, 20th August, 1758. The Right Hon. John Wilson
    Croker, with whom the Marquis of Hertford had placed the disposal of
    the Conway Papers, is also in possession of the Throckmorton Papers,
    of which the reader may likewise observe a particular notice in Sir
    Henry Wotton's will, in Izaak Walton's Lives. Unsunned treasures lie
    in the State-paper office.

  [255] Since this article has been sent to press I rise from reading
    one in the Edinburgh Review on Lord Orford's and Lord Waldegrave's
    Memoirs. This is one of the very rare articles which could only come
    from the hand of a master long exercised in the studies he
    criticises. The critic, or rather the historian, observes, that "of
    a period remarkable for the establishment of our present system of
    government, no authentic materials had yet appeared. Events of
    public notoriety are to be found, though often inaccurately told, in
    our common histories; but the secret springs of action, the private
    views and motives of individuals, &c., are as little known to us as
    if the events to which they relate had taken place in China or
    Japan." The clear, connected, dispassionate, and circumstantial
    narrative, with which he has enriched the stores of English history,
    is drawn from the sources of SECRET HISTORY; from published
    memoirs and contemporary correspondence.

LITERARY RESIDENCES.

Men of genius have usually been condemned to compose their finest works, which are usually
their earliest ones, under the roof of a garret; and few literary characters have lived, like
Pliny and Voltaire, in a villa or château of their own. It has not therefore often happened
that a man of genius could raise local emotions by his own intellectual suggestions. Ariosto,
who built a palace in his verse, lodged himself in a small house, and found that stanzas and
stones were not put together at the same rate: old Montaigne has left a description of his
library; "over the entrance of my house, where I view my court-yards, and garden, and at once
survey all the operations of my family!"

There is, however, a feeling among literary men of building up their own elegant fancies, and
giving a permanency to their own tastes; we dwell on their favourite scenes as a sort of portraits,
and we eagerly collect those few prints, which are their only vestiges.

We have all by heart the true and delightful reflection of Johnson on local associations, when
the scene we tread suggests to us the men or the deeds, which have left their celebrity to
the spot. We are in the presence of their fame, and feel its influence!

A literary friend, whom a hint of mine had induced to visit the old tower in the garden of
Buffon, where the sage retired every morning to compose, passed so long a time in that lonely
apartment as to have raised some solicitude among the honest folks of Montbard, who having
seen the "Englishman" enter, but not return, during a heavy thunder-storm which had occurred
in the interval, informed the good mayor, who came in due form, to notify the ambiguous state
of the stranger. My friend is, as is well known, a genius of that cast who could pass two hours
in the Tower of Buffon, without being aware that he had been all that time occupied by suggestions
of ideas and reveries, which in some minds such a locality may excite. He was also busied with
his pencil; for he has favoured me with two drawings of the interior and the exterior of this
old tower in the garden: the nakedness within can only be compared to the solitude without.
Such was the studying-room of Buffon, where his eye, resting on no object, never interrupted
the unity of his meditations on nature.

In return for my friend's kindness, it has cost me, I think, two hours in attempting to translate
the beautiful picture of this literary retreat, which Vicq d'Azyr has finished with all the
warmth of a votary. "At Montbard, in the midst of an ornamented garden, is seen an antique
tower; it was there that Buffon wrote the History of Nature, and from that spot his fame spread
through the universe. There he came at sunrise, and no one, however importunate, was suffered
to trouble him. The calm of the morning hour, the first warbling of the birds, the varied aspect
of the country, all at that moment which touched the senses, recalled him to his model. Free,
independent, he wandered in his walks; there was he seen with quickened or with slow steps,
or standing wrapped in thought, sometimes with his eyes fixed on the heavens in the moment
of inspiration, as if satisfied with the thought that so profoundly occupied his soul; sometimes,
collected within himself, he sought what would not always be found; or at the moments of producing,
he wrote, he effaced, and rewrote, to efface once more; thus he harmonised, in silence, all
the parts of his composition, which he frequently repeated to himself, till, satisfied with
his corrections, he seemed to repay himself for the pains of his beautiful prose, by the pleasure
he found in declaiming it aloud. Thus he engraved it in his memory, and would recite it to
his friends, or induce some to read it to him. At those moments he was himself a severe judge,
and would again re-compose it, desirous of attaining to that perfection which is denied to
the impatient writer."

A curious circumstance, connected with local associations, occurred to that extraordinary oriental
student, Fourmont. Originally he belonged to a religious community, and never failed in performing
his offices: but he was expelled by the superior for an irregularity of conduct not likely
to have become contagious through the brotherhood--he frequently prolonged his studies far
into the night, and it was possible that the house might be burnt by such superfluity of learning.
Fourmont retreated to the college of Montaign, where he occupied the very chambers which had
formerly been those of Erasmus; a circumstance which contributed to excite his emulation, and
to hasten his studies. He who smiles at the force of such emotions, only proves that he has
not experienced what are real and substantial as the scene itself--for those who are concerned
in them. Pope, who had far more enthusiasm in his poetical disposition than is generally understood,
was extremely susceptible of the literary associations with localities: one of the volumes
of his Homer was begun and finished in an old tower over the chapel of Stanton Harcourt;[256]
and he has perpetuated the event, if not consecrated the place, by scratching with a diamond
on a pane of stained glass this inscription:--

  In the year 1718,
  ALEXANDER POPE
  Finished here the f....
  fifth volume of HOMER.[257]

It was the same feeling which induced him one day, when taking his usual walk with Harte in
the Haymarket, to desire Harte to enter a little shop, where going up three pair of stairs
into a small room, Pope said, "In this garret Addison wrote his Campaign!" Nothing less than
a strong feeling impelled the poet to ascend this garret--it was a consecrated spot to his
eye; and certainly a curious instance of the power of genius contrasted with its miserable
locality! Addison, whose mind had fought through "a campaign!" in a garret, could he have called
about him "the pleasures of imagination," had probably planned a house of literary repose,
where all parts would have been in harmony with his mind.

Such residences of men of genius have been enjoyed by some; and the vivid descriptions which
they have left us convey something of the delightfulness which charmed their studious repose.

The Italian, Paul Jovius, has composed more than three hundred concise eulogies of statesmen,
warriors, and literary men, of the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth centuries; but the
occasion which induced him to compose them is perhaps more interesting than the compositions.

Jovius had a villa, situated on a peninsula, bordered by the Lake of Como. It was built on
the ruins of the villa of Pliny, and in his time the foundations were still visible. Jovius
was the enthusiast of literature, and the leisure which it loves. He was an historian, with
the imagination of a poet, and though a Christian prelate, almost a worshipper of the sweet
fictions of pagan mythology; and when his pen was kept pure from satire or adulation, to which
it was too much accustomed, it became a pencil. A statue was raised in his gardens to Nature!
In his hall stood a fine statue of Apollo, and the Muses around, with their attributes. His
library was guarded by a Mercury, and there was an apartment adorned with Doric columns, and
with pictures of the most pleasing subjects dedicated to the Graces! Such was the interior!

It was in a central spot of this enchanting habitation that a cabinet or gallery was erected,
where Jovius had collected with prodigal cost the portraits of celebrated men; and it was to
explain and to describe the characteristics of these illustrious names that he had composed
his eulogies. This collection became so remarkable, that the great men his contemporaries presented
our literary collector with their own portraits, among whom the renowned Fernandez Cortes sent
Jovius his before he died, and probably others who were less entitled to enlarge the collection;
but it is equally probable that our caustic Jovius would throw them aside. Our historian had
often to describe men more famous than virtuous; sovereigns, politicians, poets, and philosophers,
men of all ranks, countries, and ages, formed a crowded scene of men of genius or of celebrity;
sometimes a few lines compress their character, and sometimes a few pages excite his fondness.
If he sometimes adulates the living, we may pardon the illusions of a contemporary; but he
has the honour of satirising some by the honest freedom of a pen which occasionally broke out
into premature truths.

Such was the inspiration of literature and leisure which had embellished the abode of Jovius,
and had raised in the midst of the Lake of Como a cabinet of portraits; a noble tribute to
those who are "the salt of the earth."

We possess prints of Rubens's house at Antwerp. That princely artist perhaps first contrived
for his studio the circular apartment with a dome, like the rotunda of the Pantheon, where
the light descending from an aperture or window at the top, sent down a single equal light,--that
perfection of light which distributes its magical effects on the objects beneath.[258] Bellori
describes it una stanza rotonda con un solo occhio in cima; the solo occhio is what the French
term oeil de boeuf; we ourselves want this single eye in our technical language of art. This
was his precious museum, where he had collected a vast number of books, which were intermixed
with his marbles, statues, cameos, intaglios, and all that variety of the riches of art which
he had drawn from Rome:[259] but the walls did not yield in value; for they were covered by
pictures of his own composition, or copies by his own hand, made at Venice and Madrid, of Titian
and Paul Veronese. No foreigners, men of letters, or lovers of the arts, or even princes, would
pass through Antwerp without visiting the house of Rubens, to witness the animated residence
of genius, and the great man who had conceived the idea. Yet, great as was his mind, and splendid
as were the habits of his life, he could not resist the entreaties of the hundred thousand
florins of our Duke of Buckingham, to dispose of this studio. The great artist could not, however,
abandon for ever the delightful contemplations he was depriving himself of; and as substitutes
for the miracles of art he had lost, he solicited and obtained leave to replace them by casts
which were scrupulously deposited in the places where the originals had stood.

Of this feeling of the local residences of genius, the Italians appear to have been not perhaps
more susceptible than other people, but more energetic in their enthusiasm. Florence exhibits
many monuments of this sort. In the neighbourhood of Santa Maria Novella, Zimmerman has noticed
a house of the celebrated Viviani, which is a singular monument of gratitude to his illustrious
master, Galileo. The front is adorned with the bust of this father of science, and between
the windows are engraven accounts of the discoveries of Galileo; it is the most beautiful biography
of genius! Yet another still more eloquently excites our emotions--the house of Michael Angelo:
his pupils, in perpetual testimony of their admiration and gratitude, have ornamented it with
all the leading features of his life; the very soul of this vast genius put in action: this
is more than biography!--it is living as with a contemporary!

FOOTNOTES:

  [256] The room is a small wainscoted apartment in the second floor,
    commanding a pleasant view.

  [257] The above inscription is a fac-simile of that upon the glass.
    The word fifth in the third line has been erased by Pope for want
    of room to complete it properly. It is scratched on a small pane of
    red glass, and has been removed to Nuneham Courtney, the seat of the
    Harcourt family, on the banks of the Thames, a few miles from
    Oxford.

  [258] Harrewyns published, in 1684, a series of interesting views of
    the house, and some of the apartments, including this domed one. The
    series are upon one folio sheet, now very rare.

  [259] Rubens was an ardent collector, and lost no chance of increasing
    his stores; in the appendix to Carpenter's "Pictorial Notices of
    Vandyke" is printed the correspondence between himself and Sir D.
    Carleton, offering to exchange some of his own pictures for antiques
    in possession of the latter, who was ambassador from England to
    Holland, and who collected also for the Earl of Arundel.

WHETHER ALLOWABLE TO RUIN ONESELF?

The political economist replies that it is!

One of our old dramatic writers, who witnessed the singular extravagance of dress among the
modellers of fashion, our nobility, condemns their "superfluous bravery," echoing the popular cry--

  "There are a sort of men, whose coining heads
  Are mints of all new fashions, that have done
  More hurt to the kingdom, by superfluous bravery,
  Which the foolish gentry imitate, than a war
  Or a long famine. All the treasure by
  This foul excess is got into the merchants',
  Embroiderers', silkmen's, jewellers', tailors' hands,
  And the third part of the land too! the nobility
  Engrossing titles only."

Our poet might have been startled at the reply of our political economist. If the nobility,
in follies such as these, only preserved their "titles," while their "lands" were dispersed
among the industrious classes, the people were not sufferers. The silly victims ruining themselves
by their excessive luxury, or their costly dress, as it appears some did, was an evil which,
left to its own course, must check itself; if the rich did not spend, the poor would starve.
Luxury is the cure of that unavoidable evil in society--great inequality of fortune! Political
economists therefore tell us that any regulations would be ridiculous which, as Lord Bacon
expresses it, should serve for "the repressing of waste and excess by sumptuary laws." We must
therefore infer that governments by extravagance may ruin a state, but that individuals enjoy
the remarkable privilege of ruining themselves without injuring society! There is, therefore,
a greater and a lesser evil in this important subject of the opulent, unrestricted by any law,
ruining his whole generation.

Where "the wealth of nations" is made the solitary standard of their prosperity, it becomes
a fertile source of errors in the science of morals; and the happiness of the individual is
then too frequently sacrificed to what is called the prosperity of the state. If an individual,
in the pride of luxury and selfism, annihilates the fortunes of his whole generation, untouched
by the laws as a criminal, he leaves behind him a race of the discontented and the seditious,
who, having sunk in the scale of society, have to reascend from their degradation by industry
and by humiliation; but for the work of industry their habits have made them inexpert; and
to humiliation their very rank presents a perpetual obstacle.

Sumptuary laws, so often enacted and so often repealed, and always eluded, were the perpetual,
but ineffectual, attempts of all governments to restrain what, perhaps, cannot be restrained--criminal
folly! And to punish a man for having ruined himself would usually be to punish a most contrite
penitent.

It is not surprising that before "private vices were considered as public benefits," the governors
of nations instituted sumptuary laws--for the passion for pageantry and an incredible prodigality
in dress were continually impoverishing great families--more equality of wealth has now rather
subdued the form of private ruin than laid this evil domestic spirit. The incalculable expenditure
and the blaze of splendour of our ancestors may startle the incredulity of our élégantes. We
find men of rank exhausting their wealth and pawning their castles, and then desperately issuing
from them, heroes for a crusade, or brigands for their neighbourhood!--and this frequently
from the simple circumstance of having for a short time maintained some gorgeous chivalric
festival on their own estates, or from having melted thousands of acres into cloth of gold;
their sons were left to beg their bread on the estates which they were to have inherited.

It was when chivalry still charmed the world by the remains of its seductive splendours, towards
the close of the fifteenth century, that I find an instance of this kind occurring in the Pas
de Sandricourt, which was held in the neighbourhood of the sieur of that name. It is a memorable
affair, not only for us curious inquirers after manners and morals, but for the whole family
of the Sandricourts; for though the said sieur is now receiving the immortality we bestow on
him, and la dame who presided in that magnificent piece of chivalry was infinitely gratified,
yet for ever after was the lord of Sandricourt ruined--and all for a short, romantic three months!

This story of the chivalric period may amuse. A pas d'armes, though consisting of military
exercises and deeds of gallantry, was a sort of festival distinct from a tournament. It signified
a pas or passage to be contested by one or more knights against all comers. It was necessary
that the road should be such that it could not be passed without encountering some guardian
knight. The chevaliers who disputed the pas hung their blazoned shields on trees, pales, or
posts raised for this purpose. The aspirants after chivalric honours would strike with their
lance one of these shields, and when it rung, it instantly summoned the owner to the challenge.
A bridge or a road would sometimes serve for this military sport, for such it was intended
to be, whenever the heat of the rivals proved not too earnest. The sieur of Sandricourt was
a fine dreamer of feats of chivalry, and in the neighbourhood of his castle he fancied that
he saw a very spot adapted for every game; there was one admirably fitted for the barrier of
a tilting-match; another embellished by a solitary pine-tree; another which was called the
meadow of the Thorn; there was a carrefour, where, in four roads, four knights might meet;
and, above all, there was a forest called devoyable, having no path, so favourable for errant
knights who might there enter for strange adventures, and, as chance directed, encounter others
as bewildered as themselves. Our chivalric Sandricourt found nine young seigneurs of the court
of Charles the Eighth of France, who answered all his wishes. To sanction this glorious feat
it was necessary to obtain leave from the king, and a herald of the Duke of Orleans to distribute
the cartel or challenge all over France, announcing that from such a day ten young lords would
stand ready to combat, in those different places, in the neighbourhood of Sandricourt's château.
The names of this flower of chivalry have been faithfully registered, and they were such as
instantly to throw a spark into the heart of every lover of arms! The world of fashion, that
is, the chivalric world, were set in motion. Four bodies of assailants soon collected, each
consisting of ten combatants. The herald of Orleans having examined the arms of these gentlemen,
and satisfied himself of their ancient lineage and their military renown, admitted their claims
to the proffered honour. Sandricourt now saw with rapture the numerous shields of the assailants
placed on the sides of his portals, and corresponding with those of the challengers which hung
above them. Ancient lords were elected judges of the feats of the knights, accompanied by the
ladies, for whose honour only the combatants declared they engaged.

The herald of Orleans tells the history in no very intelligible verse; but the burthen of his
stanza is still

  Du pas d'armes du chasteau Sandricourt.

He sings, or says,

  Oncques, depuis le tempts du roi Artus,
  Ne furent tant les armes exaulcées--
  Maint chevaliers et preux entreprenans--
  Princes plusieurs ont terres déplacées
  Pour y venir donner coups et poussées
  Qui out été lá tenus si de court
  Que par force n'ont prises et passées
  Les barriers, entrées, et passées
  Du pas des armes du chasteau Sandricourt.

Doubtless there many a Roland met with his Oliver, and could not pass the barriers. Cased as
they were in steel, de pied en cap, we presume that they could not materially injure themselves;
yet, when on foot, the ancient judges discovered such symptoms of peril, that on the following
day they advised our knights to satisfy themselves by fighting on horseback. Against this prudential
counsel for some time they protested, as an inferior sort of glory. However, on the next day,
the horse combat was appointed in the carrefour, by the pine-tree. On the following day they
tried their lances in the meadow of the Thorn; but, though on horseback, the judges deemed
their attacks were so fierce that this assault was likewise not without peril; for some horses
were killed, and some knights were thrown, and lay bruised by their own mail; but the barbed
horses, wearing only des chamfreins, head-pieces magnificently caparisoned, found no protection
in their ornaments. The last days were passed in combats of two to two, or in a single encounter,
a-foot, in the forêt devoyable. These jousts passed without any accident, and the prizes were
awarded in a manner equally gratifying to the claimants. The last day of the festival was concluded
with a most sumptuous banquet. Two noble knights had undertaken the humble office of maîtres-d'hôtel;
and while the knights were parading in the forêt devoyable seeking adventures, a hundred servants
were seen at all points, carrying white and red hypocras, and juleps, and sirop de violars,
sweetmeats, and other spiceries, to comfort these wanderers, who, on returning to the chasteau,
found a grand and plenteous banquet. The tables were crowded in the court apartment, where
some held one hundred and twelve gentlemen, not including the dames and the demoiselles. In
the halls, and outside of the chasteau, were other tables. At that festival more than two thousand
persons were magnificently entertained free of every expense; their attendants, their armourers,
their plumassiers, and others, were also present. La Dame de Sandricourt, "fût moult aise d'avoir
donné dans son chasteau si belle, si magnifique, et gorgiasse fête." Historians are apt to
describe their personages as they appear, not as they are: if the lady of the Sieur Sandricourt
really was "moult aise" during these gorgeous days, one cannot but sympathise with the lady,
when her loyal knight and spouse confessed to her, after the departure of the mob of two thousand
visitors, neighbours, soldiers, and courtiers,--the knights challengers, and the knights assailants,
and the fine scenes at the pine-tree; the barrier in the meadow of the Thorn; and the horse-combat
at the carrefour; and the jousts in the forêt devoyable; the carousals in the castle halls;
the jollity of the banquet tables; the morescoes danced till they were reminded "how the waning
night grew old!"--in a word, when the costly dream had vanished,--that he was a ruined man
for ever, by immortalising his name in one grand chivalric festival! The Sieur de Sandricourt,
like a great torch, had consumed himself in his own brightness; and the very land on which
the famous Pas de Sandricourt was held--had passed away with it! Thus one man sinks generations
by that wastefulness, which a political economist would assure us was committing no injury
to society! The moral evil goes for nothing in financial statements.

Similar instances of ruinous luxury we may find in the prodigal costliness of dress through
the reigns of Elizabeth, James the First, and Charles the First. Not only in their massy grandeur
they outweighed us, but the accumulation and variety of their wardrobe displayed such a gaiety
of fancy in their colours and their ornaments, that the drawing-room in those days must have
blazed at their presence, and changed colours as the crowd moved. But if we may trust to royal
proclamations, the ruin was general among some classes. Elizabeth issued more than one proclamation
against "the excess of apparel!" and among other evils which the government imagined this passion
for dress occasioned, it notices "the wasting and undoing of a great number of young gentlemen,
otherwise serviceable; and that others, seeking by show of apparel to be esteemed as gentlemen,
and allured by the vain show of these things, not only consume their goods and lands, but also
run into such debts and shifts, as they cannot live out of danger of laws without attempting
of unlawful acts." The queen bids her own household "to look unto it for good example to the
realm; and all noblemen, archbishops and bishops, all mayors, justices of peace, &c., should
see them executed in their private households." The greatest difficulty which occurred to regulate
the wear of apparel was ascertaining the incomes of persons, or in the words of the proclamation,
"finding that it is very hard for any man's state of living and value to be truly understood
by other persons." They were to be regulated as they appear "sessed in the subsidy books."
But if persons chose to be more magnificent in their dress, they were allowed to justify their
means: in that case, if allowed, her majesty would not be the loser; for they were to be rated
in the subsidy books according to such values as they themselves offered as a qualification
for the splendour of their dress!

In my researches among manuscript letters of the times, I have had frequent occasion to discover
how persons of considerable rank appear to have carried their acres on their backs, and with
their ruinous and fantastical luxuries sadly pinched their hospitality. It was this which so
frequently cast them into the nets of the "goldsmiths," and other trading usurers. At the coronation
of James the First, I find a simple knight whose cloak cost him five hundred pounds; but this
was not uncommon.[260] At the marriage of Elizabeth, the daughter of James the First, "Lady
Wotton had a gown of which the embroidery cost fifty pounds a yard. The Lady Arabella made
four gowns, one of which cost 1500l. The Lord Montacute (Montague) bestowed 1500l. in apparel
for his two daughters. One lady, under the rank of baroness, was furnished with jewels exceeding
one hundred thousand pounds; "and the Lady Arabella goes beyond her," says the letter-writer.
"All this extreme costs and riches makes us all poor," as he imagined![261] I have been amused
in observing grave writers of state-dispatches jocular on any mischance or mortification to
which persons are liable whose happiness entirely depends on their dress. Sir Dudley Carleton,
our minister at Venice, communicates, as an article worth transmitting, the great disappointment
incurred by Sir Thomas Glover, "who was just come hither, and had appeared one day like a comet,
all in crimson velvet and beaten gold, but had all his expectations marred on a sudden by the
news of Prince Henry's death." A similar mischance, from a different cause, was the lot of
Lord Hay, who made great preparations for his embassy to France, which, however, were chiefly
confined to his dress. He was to remain there twenty days; and the letter-writer maliciously
observes, that "He goes with twenty special suits of apparel for so many days' abode, besides
his travelling robes; but news is very lately come that the French have lately altered their
fashion, whereby he must needs be out of countenance, if he be not set out after the last edition!"
To find himself out of fashion, with twenty suits for twenty days, was a mischance his lordship
had no right to count on!

"The glass of fashion" was unquestionably held up by two very eminent characters, Rawleigh
and Buckingham; and the authentic facts recorded of their dress will sufficiently account for
the frequent "Proclamations" to control that servile herd of imitators--the smaller gentry!

There is a remarkable picture of Sir Walter, which will at least serve to convey an idea of
the gaiety and splendour of his dress. It is a white satin pinked vest, close sleeved to the
wrist; over the body a brown doublet, finely flowered and embroidered with pearl. In the feather
of his hat a large ruby and pearl drop at the bottom of the sprig, in place of a button; his
trunk or breeches, with his stockings and riband garters, fringed at the end, all white, and
buff shoes with white riband. Oldys, who saw this picture, has thus described the dress of
Rawleigh. But I have some important additions; for I find that Rawleigh's shoes on great court
days were so gorgeously covered with precious stones, as to have exceeded the value of six
thousand six hundred pounds: and that he had a suit of armour of solid silver, with sword and
belt blazing with diamonds, rubies, and pearls, whose value was not so easily calculated. Rawleigh
had no patrimonial inheritance; at this moment he had on his back a good portion of a Spanish
galleon, and the profits of a monopoly of trade he was carrying on with the newly discovered
Virginia. Probably he placed all his hopes in his dress! The virgin queen, when she issued
proclamations against "the excess of apparel," pardoned, by her looks, that promise of a mine
which blazed in Rawleigh's; and, parsimonious as she was, forgot the three thousand changes
of dresses which she herself left in the royal wardrobe.

Buckingham could afford to have his diamonds tacked so loosely on, that when he chose to shake
a few off on the ground, he obtained all the fame he desired from the pickers-up, who were
generally les dames de la cour; for our duke never condescended to accept what he himself had
dropped. His cloaks were trimmed with great diamond buttons, and diamond hatbands, cockades,
and ear-rings yoked with great ropes and knots of pearls. This was, however, but for ordinary
dances. "He had twenty-seven suits of clothes made, the richest that embroidery, lace, silk,
velvet, silver, gold, and gems could contribute; one of which was a white uncut velvet, set
all over, both suit and cloak, with diamonds valued at fourscore thousand pounds, besides a
great feather stuck all over with diamonds, as were also his sword, girdle, hat, and spurs."[262]
In the masques and banquets with which Buckingham entertained the court, he usually expended,
for the evening, from one to five thousand pounds. To others I leave to calculate the value
of money: the sums of this gorgeous wastefulness, it must be recollected, occurred before this
million age of ours.

If, to provide the means for such enormous expenditure, Buckingham multiplied the grievances
of monopolies; if he pillaged the treasury for his eighty thousand pounds' coat; if Rawleigh
was at length driven to his last desperate enterprise to relieve himself of his creditors for
a pair of six thousand pounds' shoes--in both these cases, as in that of the chivalric Sandricourt,
the political economist may perhaps acknowledge that there is a sort of luxury highly criminal.
All the arguments he may urge, all the statistical accounts he may calculate, and the healthful
state of his circulating medium among "the merchants, embroiderers, silkmen, and jewellers"--will
not alter such a moral evil, which leaves an eternal taint on "the wealth of nations!" It is
the principle that "private vices are public benefits," and that men may be allowed to ruin
their generations without committing any injury to society.

FOOTNOTES:

  [260] The famous Puritanic writer, Philip Stubbes, who published his
    "Anatomie of Abuses" in 1593, declares that he "has heard of shirtes
    that have cost some ten shillings, some twentie, some fortie, some
    five pound, some twentie nobles, and (which is horrible to heare)
    some tenne pounde a peece." His book is filled with similar
    denunciations of abuses; in which he is followed by other satirists.
    They appear to have produced little effect in the way of
    reformation; for in the days of James I, John Taylor, the Water
    poet, similarly laments the wastefulness of those who--

      Wear a farm in shoe-strings edged with gold,
      And spangled garters worth a copyhold;
      A hose and doublet which a lordship cost;
      A gaudy cloak, three manors' price almost;
      A beaver band and feather for the head
      Priced at the church's tythe, the poor man's bread.

  [261] It is not unusual to find in inventories of this era, the
    household effects rated at much less than the wearing apparel, of
    the person whose property is thus valued.

  [262] The Jesuit Drexelius, in one of his Religious Dialogues,
    notices the fact; but I am referring to an Harleian manuscript,
    which confirms the information of the Jesuit.

DISCOVERIES OF SECLUDED MEN.

Those who are unaccustomed to the labours of the closet are unacquainted with the secret and
silent triumphs obtained in the pursuits of studious men. That aptitude, which in poetry is
sometimes called inspiration, in knowledge we may call sagacity; and it is probable that the
vehemence of the one does not excite more pleasure than the still tranquillity of the other:
they are both, according to the strict signification of the Latin term from whence we have
borrowed ours of invention, a finding out, the result of a combination which no other has formed
but ourselves.

I will produce several remarkable instances of the felicity of this aptitude of the learned
in making discoveries which could only have been effectuated by an uninterrupted intercourse
with the objects of their studies, making things remote and dispersed familiar and present.[263]

One of ancient date is better known to the reader than those I am preparing for him. When the
magistrates of Syracuse were showing to Cicero the curiosities of the place, he desired to
visit the tomb of Archimedes; but, to his surprise, they acknowledged that they knew nothing
of any such tomb, and denied that it ever existed. The learned Cicero, convinced by the authorities
of ancient writers, by the verses of the inscription which he remembered, and the circumstance
of a sphere with a cylinder being engraven on it, requested them to assist him in the search.
They conducted the illustrious but obstinate stranger to their most ancient burying-ground:
amidst the number of sepulchres, they observed a small column overhung with brambles--Cicero,
looking on while they were clearing away the rubbish, suddenly exclaimed, "Here is the thing
we are looking for!" His eye had caught the geometrical figures on the tomb, and the inscription
soon confirmed his conjecture. Cicero long after exulted in the triumph of this discovery.
"Thus!" he says, "one of the noblest cities of Greece, and once the most learned, had known
nothing of the monument of its most deserving and ingenious citizen, had it not been discovered
to them by a native of Arpinum!"

The great French antiquary, Peiresc, exhibited a singular combination of learning, patient
thought, and luminous sagacity, which could restore an "airy nothing" to "a local habitation
and a name." There was found on an amethyst, and the same afterwards occurred on the front
of an ancient temple, a number of marks, or indents, which had long perplexed inquirers, more
particularly as similar marks or indents were frequently observed in ancient monuments. It
was agreed on, as no one could understand them, and all would be satisfied, that they were
secret hieroglyphics. It occurred to Peiresc that these marks were nothing more than holes
for small nails, which had formerly fastened little laminæ, which represented so many Greek
letters. This hint of his own suggested to him to draw lines from one hole to another; and
he beheld the amethyst reveal the name of the sculptor, and the frieze of the temple the name
of the god! This curious discovery has been since frequently applied; but it appears to have
originated with this great antiquary, who by his learning and sagacity explained a supposed
hieroglyphic, which had been locked up in the silence of seventeen centuries.[264]

Learned men, confined to their study, have often rectified the errors of travellers; they have
done more, they have found out paths for them to explore, or opened seas for them to navigate.
The situation of the vale of Tempe had been mistaken by modern travellers; and it is singular,
observes the Quarterly Reviewer, yet not so singular as it appears to that elegant critic,
that the only good directions for finding it had been given by a person who was never in Greece.
Arthur Browne, a man of letters of Trinity College, Dublin--it is gratifying to quote an Irish
philosopher and man of letters, from the extreme rarity of the character--was the first to
detect the inconsistencies of Pococke and Busching, and to send future travellers to look for
Tempe in its real situation, the defiles between Ossa and Olympus; a discovery subsequently
realised. When Dr. Clarke discovered an inscription purporting that the pass of Tempe had been
fortified by Cassius Longinus, Mr. Walpole, with equal felicity, detected, in Cæsar's "History
of the Civil War," the name and the mission of this very person.

A living geographer, to whom the world stands deeply indebted, does not read Herodotus in the
original; yet, by the exercise of his extraordinary aptitude, it is well known that he has
often corrected the Greek historian, explained obscurities in a text which he never read, by
his own happy conjectures, and confirmed his own discoveries by the subsequent knowledge which
modern travellers have afforded.

Gray's perseverance in studying the geography of India and of Persia, at a time when our country
had no immediate interests with those ancient empires, would have been placed by a cynical
observer among the curious idleness of a mere man of letters. These studies were indeed prosecuted,
as Mr. Mathias observes, "on the disinterested principles of liberal investigation, not on
those of policy, nor of the regulation of trade, nor of the extension of empire, nor of permanent
establishments, but simply and solely on the grand view of what is, and of what is past. They
were the researches of a solitary scholar in academical retirement." Since the time of Gray,
these very pursuits have been carried on by two consummate geographers, Major Rennel and Dr.
Vincent, who have opened to the classical and the political reader all he wished to learn,
at a time when India and Persia had become objects interesting and important to us. The fruits
of Gray's learning, long after their author was no more, became valuable!

The studies of the "solitary scholar" are always useful to the world, although they may not
always be timed to its present wants; with him, indeed, they are not merely designed for this
purpose. Gray discovered India for himself; but the solitary pursuits of a great student, shaped
to a particular end, will never fail being useful to the world; though it may happen that a
century may elapse between the periods of the discovery and its practical utility.

Halley's version of an Arabic MS. on a mathematical subject offers an instance of the extraordinary
sagacity I am alluding to; it may also serve as a demonstration of the peculiar and supereminent
advantages possessed by mathematicians, observes Mr. Dugald Stewart, in their fixed relations,
which form the objects of their science, and the correspondent precision in their language
and reasoning:--as matter of literary history it is highly curious. Dr. Bernard accidentally
discovered in the Bodleian Library an Arabic version of Apollonius de Sectione Rationis, which
he determined to translate in Latin, but only finished about a tenth part. Halley, extremely
interested by the subject, but with an entire ignorance of the Arabic language, resolved to
complete the imperfect version! Assisted only by the manuscript which Bernard had left, it
served him as a key for investigating the sense of the original; he first made a list of those
words wherever they occurred, with the train of reasoning in which they were involved, to decipher,
by these very slow degrees, the import of the context; till at last Halley succeeded in mastering
the whole work, and in bringing the translation, without the aid of any one, to the form in
which he gave it to the public; so that we have here a difficult work translated from the Arabic,
by one who was in no manner conversant with the language, merely by the exertion of his sagacity!

I give the memorable account, as Boyle has delivered it, of the circumstances which led Harvey
to the discovery of the circulation of the blood.

The reason here ascribed to Harvey seems now so very natural and obvious, that some have been
disposed to question his claim to the high rank commonly assigned to him among the improvers
of science! Dr. William Hunter has said that after the discovery of the valves in the veins,
which Harvey learned while in Italy from his master, Fabricius ab Aquapendente, the remaining
step might easily have been made by any person of common abilities. "This discovery," he observes,
"set Harvey to work upon the use of the heart and vascular system in animals; and in the course
of some years, he was so happy as to discover, and to prove beyond all possibility of doubt,
the circulation of the blood." He afterwards expresses his astonishment that this discovery
should have been left for Harvey, though he acknowledges it occupied "a course of years;" adding
that "Providence meant to reserve it for him, and would not let men see what was before them,
nor understand what they read." It is remarkable that when great discoveries are effected,
their simplicity always seems to detract from their originality: on these occasions we are
reminded of the egg of Columbus!

It is said that a recent discovery, which ascertains that the Niger empties itself into the
Atlantic Ocean, was really anticipated by the geographical acumen of a student at Glasgow,
who arrived at the same conclusion by a most persevering investigation of the works of travellers
and geographers, ancient and modern, and by an examination of African captives; and had actually
constructed, for the inspection of government, a map of Africa, on which he had traced the
entire course of the Niger from the interior.

Franklin conjectured the identity of lightning and of electricity, before he had realised it
by decisive experiment. The kite being raised, a considerable time elapsed before there was
any appearance of its being electrified. One very promising cloud had passed over it without
any effect. Just as he was beginning to despair of his contrivance, he observed some loose
threads of the hempen string to stand erect, and to avoid one another, just as if they had
been suspended on a common conductor. Struck with this promising appearance, he immediately
presented his knuckle to the key! And let the reader judge of the exquisite pleasure he must
have felt at that moment when the discovery was complete! We owe to Priestley this admirable
narrative; the strong sensation of delight which Franklin experienced as his knuckle touched
the key, and at the moment when he felt that a new world was opening, might have been equalled,
but it was probably not surpassed, when the same hand signed the long-disputed independence
of his country!

When Leibnitz was occupied in his philosophical reasonings on his Law of Continuity, his singular
sagacity enabled him to predict a discovery which afterwards was realised--he imagined the
necessary existence of the polypus!

It has been remarked of Newton, that several of his slight hints, some in the modest form of
queries, have been ascertained to be predictions, and among others that of the inflammability
of the diamond; and many have been eagerly seized upon as indisputable axioms. A hint at the
close of his Optics, that "If natural philosophy should be continued to be improved in its
various branches, the bounds of moral philosophy would be enlarged also," is perhaps among
the most important of human discoveries--it gave rise to Hartley's Physiological Theory of
the Mind. The queries, the hints, the conjectures of Newton, display the most creative sagacity;
and demonstrate in what manner the discoveries of retired men, while they bequeath their legacies
to the world, afford to themselves a frequent source of secret and silent triumphs.

FOOTNOTES:

  [263] The remarkable clue to the reading of the hieroglyphic language
    of ancient Egypt perfected in our own times is a striking instance
    of this; as well as the investigations now proceeding in Babylonian
    inscriptions, which promise to enable us to comprehend a language
    that was once considered as hopelessly lost.

  [264] The curious reader may view the marks, and the manner in which
    the Greek characters were made out, in the preface to Hearne's
    "Curious Discourses." The amethyst proved more difficult than the
    frieze, from the circumstance, that in engraving on the stone the
    letters must be reversed.

SENTIMENTAL BIOGRAPHY.

A periodical critic, probably one of the juniors, has thrown out a startling observation. "There
is," says this literary senator, "something melancholy in the study of biography, because it
is--a history of the dead!" A truism and a falsity mixed up together is the temptation with
some modern critics to commit that darling sin of theirs--novelty and originality! But we really
cannot condole with the readers of Plutarch for their deep melancholy; we who feel our spirits
refreshed, amidst the mediocrity of society, when we are recalled back to the men and the women
who WERE! illustrious in every glory! Biography with us is a re-union with human existence
in its most excellent state! and we find nothing dead in the past, while we retain the sympathies
which only require to be awakened.

It would have been more reasonable had the critic discovered that our country has not yet had
her Plutarch, and that our biography remains still little more than a mass of compilation.

In this study of biography there is a species which has not yet been distinguished--biographies
composed by some domestic friend, or by some enthusiast who works with love. A term is unquestionably
wanted for this distinct class. The Germans seem to have invented a Platonic one, drawn from
the Greek, psyche, or the soul; for they call this the psychological life. Another attempt
has been made, by giving it the scientific term of idiosyncrasy, to denote a peculiarity of
disposition. I would call it sentimental biography!

It is distinct from a chronological biography, for it searches for the individual's feelings
amidst the ascertained facts of his life; so that facts, which occurred remotely from each
other, are here brought at once together. The detail of events which completes the chronological
biography, contains many which are not connected with the peculiarity of the character itself.
The sentimental is also distinct from the autobiography, however it may seem a part of it.
Whether a man be entitled to lavish his panegyric on himself, I will not decide; but it is
certain that he risks everything by appealing to a solitary and suspected witness.

We have two Lives of Dante, one by Boccaccio and the other by Leonardo Aretino, both interesting:
but Boccaccio's is the sentimental life!

Aretino, indeed, finds fault, but with all the tenderness possible, with Boccaccio's affectionate
sketch, Origine, Vita, Studi e Costumi del clarissimo Dante, &c. "Origin, Life, Studies and
Manners, of the illustrious Dante," &c. "It seems to me," he says, "that our Boccaccio, dolcissimo
e suavissimo uomo, sweet and delightful man! has written the life and manners of this sublime
poet as if he had been composing the Filocolo, the Filostrato, or the Fiametta," the romances
of Boccaccio--"for all breathes of love and sighs, and is covered with warm tears, as if a
man were born in this world only to live among the enamoured ladies and the gallant youths
of the ten amorous days of his hundred novels."

Aretino, who wanted not all the feeling requisite for the delightful "costumi e studi" of Boccaccio's
Dante, modestly requires that his own life of Dante should be considered as a supplement to,
not as a substitute for, Boccaccio's. Pathetic with all the sorrows, and eloquent with all
the remonstrances of a fellow-citizen, Boccaccio, while he wept, hung with anger over his country's
shame in its apathy for the honour of its long-injured exile. Catching inspiration from the
breathing pages of Boccaccio, it inclines one to wish that we possessed two biographies of
an illustrious favourite character; the one strictly and fully historical, the other fraught
with those very feelings of the departed, which we may have to seek in vain for in the circumstantial
and chronological biographer. Boccaccio, indeed, was overcome by his feelings. He either knew
not, or he omits the substantial incidents of Dante's life; while his imagination throws a
romantic tinge on occurrences raised on slight, perhaps on no foundation. Boccaccio narrates
a dream of the mother of Dante so fancifully poetical, that probably Boccaccio forgot that
none but a dreamer could have told it. Seated under a high laurel-tree, by the side of a vast
fountain, the mother dreamt that she gave birth to her son; she saw him nourished by its fruit,
and refreshed by the clear waters; she soon beheld him a shepherd; approaching to pluck the
boughs, she saw him fall! When he rose he had ceased to be a man, and was transformed into
a peacock! Disturbed by her admiration, she suddenly awoke; but when the father found that
he really had a son, in allusion to the dream he called him Dante--or given! e meritamente;
perocché ottimamente, siccome si vedra procedendo, segui al nome l'effetto: "and deservedly!
for greatly, as we shall see, the effect followed the name!" At nine years of age, on a May-day,
whose joyous festival Boccaccio beautifully describes, when the softness of the heavens, re-adorning
the earth with its mingled flowers, waved the green boughs, and made all things smile, Dante
mixed with the boys and girls in the house of the good citizen who on that day gave the feast,
beheld little Bricè, as she was familiarly called, but named Beatrice. The little Dante might
have seen her before, but he loved her then, and from that day never ceased to love; and thus
Dante nella pargoletta età fatto d'amore ferventissimo servidore; so fervent a servant to love
in an age of childhood! Boccaccio appeals to Dante's own account of his long passion, and his
constant sighs, in the Vita Nuova. No look, no word, no sign, sullied the purity of his passion;
but in her twenty-fourth year died "la bellissima Beatrice." Dante is then described as more
than inconsolable; his eyes were long two abundant fountains of tears; careless of life, he
let his beard grow wildly, and to others appeared a savage meagre man, whose aspect was so
changed, that while this weeping life lasted, he was hardly recognised by his friends; all
looked on a man so entirely transformed with deep compassion. Dante, won over by those who
could console the inconsolable, was at length solicited by his relations to marry a lady of
his own condition in life; and it was suggested that as the departed lady had occasioned him
such heavy griefs, the new one might open a source of delight. The relations and friends of
Dante gave him a wife that his tears for Beatrice might cease.

It is supposed that this marriage proved unhappy. Boccaccio, like a pathetic lover rather than
biographer, exclaims, Oh menti cicche! Oh tenebrosi intelletti! Oh argomenti vani di molti
mortali, quante sono le ruiscite in assai cose contrarie a' nostri avvisi! &c. "Oh blind men!
Oh dark minds! Oh vain arguments of most mortals, how often are the results contrary to our
advice! Frequently it is like leading one who breathes the soft air of Italy to refresh himself
in the eternal shades of the Rhodopean mountains. What physician would expel a burning fever
with fire, or put in the shivering marrow of the bones snow and ice? So certainly shall it
fare with him who, with a new love, thinks to mitigate the old. Those who believe this know
not the nature of love, nor how much a second passion adds to the first. In vain would we assist
or advise this forceful passion, if it has struck its root near the heart of him who long has
loved."

Boccaccio has beguiled my pen for half-an-hour with all the loves and fancies which sprung
out of his own affectionate and romantic heart. What airy stuff has he woven into the "Vita"
of Dante! this sentimental biography! Whether he knew but little of the personal history of
the great man whom he idolised, or whether the dream of the mother--the May-day interview with
the little Bricè, and the rest of the children--and the effusion on Dante's marriage, were
grounded on tradition, one would not harshly reject such tender incidents.[265] But let it
not be imagined that the heart of Boccaccio was only susceptible to amorous impressions--bursts
of enthusiasm and eloquence, which only a man of genius is worthy of receiving, and only a
man of genius is capable of bestowing--kindle the masculine patriotism of his bold, indignant
spirit!

Half a century had elapsed since the death of Dante, and still the Florentines showed no sign
of repentance for their ancient hatred of their persecuted patriot, nor any sense of the memory
of the creator of their language, whose immortality had become a portion of their own glory.
Boccaccio, impassioned by all his generous nature, though he regrets he could not raise a statue
to Dante, has sent down to posterity more than marble, in the "Life." I venture to give the
lofty and bold apostrophe to his fellow-citizens; but I feel that even the genius of our language
is tame by the side of the harmonised eloquence of the great votary of Dante!

"Ungrateful country! what madness urged thee, when thy dearest citizen, thy chief benefactor,
thy only poet, with unaccustomed cruelty was driven to flight! If this had happened in the
general terror of that time, coming from evil counsels, thou mightest stand excused; but when
the passion ceased, didst thou repent? didst thou recall him? Bear with me, nor deem it irksome
from me, who am thy son, that thus I collect what just indignation prompts me to speak, as
a man more desirous of witnessing your amendment, than of beholding you punished! Seems it
to you glorious, proud of so many titles and of such men, that the one whose like no neighbouring
city can show, you have chosen to chase from among you? With what triumphs, with what valorous
citizens, are you splendid? Your wealth is a removable and uncertain thing; your fragile beauty
will grow old; your delicacy is shameful and feminine; but these make you noticed by the false
judgments of the populace! Do you glory in your merchants and your artists? I speak imprudently;
but the one are tenaciously avaricious in their servile trade; and Art, which once was so noble,
and became a second nature, struck by the same avarice, is now as corrupted, and nothing worth!
Do you glory in the baseness and the listlessness of those idlers, who, because their ancestors
are remembered, attempt to raise up among you a nobility to govern you, ever by robbery, by
treachery, by falsehood! Ah! miserable mother! open thine eyes; cast them with some remorse
on what thou hast done, and blush, at least, reputed wise as thou art, to have had in your
errors so fatal a choice! Why not rather imitate the acts of those cities who so keenly disputed
merely for the honour of the birth-place of the divine Homer? Mantua, our neighbour, counts
as the greatest fame which remains for her, that Virgil was a Mantuan! and holds his very name
in such reverence, that not only in public places, but in the most private, we see his sculptured
image! You only, while you were made famous by illustrious men, you only have shown no care
for your great poet. Your Dante Alighieri died in exile, to which you unjustly, envious of
his greatness, destined him! A crime not to be remembered, that the mother should bear an envious
malignity to the virtues of a son! Now cease to be unjust! He cannot do you that, now dead,
which living he never did do to you! He lies under another sky than yours, and you never can
see him again, but on that day, when all your citizens shall view him, and the great Remunerator
shall examine, and shall punish! If anger, hatred, and enmity are buried with a man, as it
is believed, begin then to return to yourself; begin to be ashamed to have acted against your
ancient humanity; begin, then, to wish to appear a mother, and not a cold negligent step-dame.
Yield your tears to your son; yield your maternal piety to him whom once you repulsed, and,
living, cast away from you! At least think of possessing him dead, and restore your citizenship,
your award, and your grace, to his memory. He was a son who held you in reverence, and though
long an exile, he always called himself, and would be called a Florentine! He held you ever
above all others; ever he loved you! What will you then do? Will you remain obstinate in iniquity?
Will you practise less humanity than the barbarians? You wish that the world should believe
that you are the sister of famous Troy, and the daughter of Rome; assuredly the children should
resemble their fathers and their ancestors. Priam, in his misery, bought the corpse of Hector
with gold; and Rome would possess the bones of the first Scipio, and removed them from Linternum,
those bones, which, dying, so justly he had denied her. Seek then to be the true guardian of
your Dante, claim him! show this humane feeling, claim him! you may securely do this: I am
certain he will not be returned to you; but thus at once you may betray some mark of compassion,
and, not having him again, still enjoy your ancient cruelty! Alas! what comfort am I bringing
you! I almost believe, that if the dead could feel, the body of Dante would not rise to return
to you, for he is lying in Ravenna, whose hallowed soil is everywhere covered with the ashes
of saints. Would Dante quit this blessed company to mingle with the remains of those hatreds
and iniquities which gave him no rest in life? The relics of Dante, even among the bodies of
emperors and of martyrs, and of their illustrious ancestors, is prized as a treasure, for there
his works are looked on with admiration; those works of which you have not yet known to make
yourselves worthy. His birthplace, his origin remains for you, spite of your ingratitude! and
this Ravenna envies you, while she glories in your honours which she has snatched from you
through ages yet to come!"

Such was the deep emotion which opened Boccaccio's heart in this sentimental biography, and
which awoke even shame and confusion in the minds of the Florentines; they blushed for their
old hatreds, and, with awakened sympathies, they hastened to honour the memory of their great
bard. By order of the city, the Divina Commedia was publicly read and explained to the people.
Boccaccio, then sinking under the infirmities of age, roused his departing genius: still was
there marrow in the bones of the aged lion, and he engaged in the task of composing his celebrated
Commentaries on the Divina Commedia.

In this class of sentimental biography I would place a species which the historian Carte noticed
in his literary travels on the Continent, in pursuit of his historical design. He found, preserved
among several ancient families of France, their domestic annals. This delight and pride of
the modern Gauls in the great and good deeds of their ancestors, preserved in domestic archives,
will be ascribed to their folly or their vanity; yet in that folly there may be so much wisdom,
and in that vanity there may be so much greatness, that the one will amply redeem the other.

This custom has been rarely adopted among ourselves; we have, however, a few separate histories
of some ancient families, as those of Mordaunt, and of Warren. One of the most remarkable is
"A Genealogical History of the House of Yvery, in its different branches of Yvery, Luvel, Perceval,
and Gournay." Two large volumes, closely printed,[266] expatiating on the characters and events
of a single family with the grave pomp of a herald, but more particularly the idolatry of the
writer for ancient nobility, and his contempt for that growing rank in society whom he designates
as "New Men," provoked the ridicule at least of the aspersed.[267] This extraordinary work,
notwithstanding its absurdities in its general result, has left behind a deep impression. Drawn
from the authentic family records, it is not without interest that we toil through its copious
pages; we trace with a romantic sympathy the fortunes of the descendants of the House of Yvery,
from that not-forgotten hero le vaillant Perceval chevalier de la Table Ronde, to the Norman
Baron Asselin, surnamed the Wolf, for his bravery or his ferocity; thence to the Cavalier of
Charles the First, Sir Philip Perceval, who, having gloriously defended his castle, was at
length deprived of his lordly possessions, but never of his loyalty, and died obscurely in
the metropolis of a broken heart, till we reach the polished nobleman, the Lord Egmont of the
Georges.

The nation has lost many a noble example of men and women acting a great part on great occasions,
and then retreating to the shade of privacy; and we may be confident that many a name has not
been inscribed on the roll of national glory only from wanting a few drops of ink! Such domestic
annals may yet be viewed in the family records at Appleby Castle! Anne, Countess of Pembroke,
was a glorious woman, the descendant of two potent northern families, the Veteriponts and the
Cliffords.--She lived in a state of regal magnificence and independence, inhabiting five or
seven castles; yet though her magnificent spirit poured itself out in her extended charities,
and though her independence mated that of monarchs, yet she herself, in her domestic habits,
lived as a hermit in her own castles; and though only acquainted with her native language,
she had cultivated her mind in many parts of learning; and as Donne, in his way, observes,
"she knew how to converse of everything, from predestination to slea-silk." Her favourite design
was to have materials collected for the history of those two potent northern families to whom
she was allied; and at a considerable expense she employed learned persons to make collections
for this purpose from the records in the Tower, the Rolls, and other depositories of manuscripts:
Gilpin had seen three large volumes fairly transcribed. Anecdotes of a great variety of characters,
who had exerted themselves on very important occasions, compose these family records--and induce
one to wish that the public were in possession of such annals of the domestic life of heroes
and of sages, who have only failed in obtaining an historian![268]

A biographical monument of this nature, which has passed through the press, will sufficiently
prove the utility of this class of sentimental biography. It is the Life of Robert Price, a
Welsh lawyer, and an ancestor of the gentleman whose ingenuity, in our days, has refined the
principles of the Picturesque in Art. This Life is announced as "printed by the appointment
of the family;" but it must not be considered merely as a tribute of private affection; and
how we are at this day interested in the actions of a Welsh lawyer in the reign of William
the Third, whose name has probably never been consigned to the page of history, remains to be told.

Robert Price, after having served Charles the Second, lived latterly in the eventful times
of William the Third--he was probably of Tory principles, for on the arrival of the Dutch prince
he was removed from the attorney-generalship of Glamorgan. The new monarch has been accused
of favouritism, and of an eagerness in showering exorbitant grants on some of his foreigners,
which soon raised a formidable opposition in the jealous spirit of Englishmen. The grand favourite,
William Bentinck, after being raised to the Earldom of Portland, had a grant bestowed on him
of three lordships in the county of Denbigh. The patriot of his native country--a title which
the Welsh had already conferred on Robert Price--then rose to assert the rights of his fatherland,
and his speeches are as admirable for their knowledge as their spirit. "The submitting of 1500
freeholders to the will of a Dutch lord was," as he sarcastically declared, "putting them in
a worse posture than their former estate, when under William the Conqueror and his Norman lords.
England must not be tributary to strangers--we must, like patriots, stand by our country--otherwise,
when God shall send us a Prince of Wales, he may have such a present of a crown made him as
a Pope did to King John, who was surnamed Sans-terre, and was by his father made Lord of Ireland,
which grant was confirmed by the Pope, who sent him a crown of peacocks' feathers, in derogation
of his power, and the poverty of his country." Robert Price asserted that the king could not,
by the Bill of Rights, alien or give away the inheritance of a Prince of Wales without the
consent of parliament. He concluded a copious and patriotic speech, by proposing that an address
be presented to the king, to put an immediate stop to the grant now passing to the Earl of
Portland for the lordships, &c.

This speech produced such an effect, that the address was carried unanimously; and the king,
though he highly resented the speech of Robert Price, sent a civil message to the commons,
declaring that he should not have given Lord Portland those lands, had he imagined the House
of Commons could have been concerned; "I will therefore recall the grant!" On receiving the
royal message, Robert Price drew up a resolution to which the house assented, that "to procure
or pass exorbitant grants by any member of the privy council, &c. was a high crime and misdemeanour."
The speech of Robert Price contained truths too numerous and too bold to suffer the light during
that reign; but this speech against foreigners was printed the year after King William's death,
with this title, "Gloria Cambriæ, or the speech of a bold Briton in parliament, against a Dutch
Prince of Wales," with this motto, Opposuit et Vicit. Such was the great character of Robert
Price, that he was made a Welsh judge by the very sovereign whose favourite plans he had so
patriotically thwarted.

Another marked event in the life of this English patriot was a second noble stand he made against
the royal authority, when in opposition to the public good. The secret history of a quarrel
between George the First and the Prince of Wales, afterwards George the Second, on the birth
of a son, appears in this life; and when the prince in disgrace left the palace, his royal
highness proposed taking his children and the princess with him; but the king detained the
children, claiming the care of the royal offspring as a royal prerogative. It now became a
legal point to ascertain "whether the education of his majesty's grandchildren, and the care
of their marriages, &c., belonged of right to his majesty as king of this realm, or not?" Ten
of the judges obsequiously allowed of the prerogative to the full. Robert Price and another
judge decided that the education, &c., was the right of the father, although the marriages
was that of his majesty as king of this realm, yet not exclusive of the prince, their father.
He assured the king, that the ten obsequious judges had no authority to support their precipitate
opinion; all the books and precedents cannot form a prerogative for the king of this realm
to have the care and education of his grandchildren during the life and without the consent
of their father--a prerogative unknown to the laws of England! He pleads for the rights of
a father, with the spirit of one who feels them, as well as with legal science and historical
knowledge.

Such were the two great incidents in the life of this Welsh judge! Yet, had the family not
found one to commemorate these memorable events in the life of their ancestor, we had lost
the noble picture of a constitutional interpreter of the laws, an independent country gentleman,
and an Englishman jealous of the excessive predominance of ministerial or royal influence.

Cicero, and others, have informed us that the ancient history of Rome itself was composed out
of such accounts of private families, to which, indeed, we must add those annals or registers
of public events which unquestionably were preserved in the archives of the temples by the
priests. But the history of the individual may involve public interest, whenever the skill
of the writer combines with the importance of the event. Messala, the orator, gloried in having
composed many volumes of the genealogies of the nobility of Rome; and Atticus wrote the genealogy
of Brutus, to prove him descended from Junius Brutus, the expulser of the Tarquins, and founder
of the Republic, near five hundred years before.

Another class of this sentimental biography was projected by the late Elizabeth Hamilton. This
was to have consisted of a series of what she called comparative biography, and an ancient
character was to have been paralleled by a modern one. Occupied by her historical romance with
the character of Agrippina, she sought in modern history for a partner of her own sex, and
"one who, like her, had experienced vicissitudes of fortune;" and she found no one better qualified
than the princess palatine, Elizabeth, the daughter of James the First. Her next life was to
have been that of Seneca, with "the scenes and persons of which her Life of Agrippina had familiarised
her;" and the contrast or the parallel was to have been Locke; which, well managed, she thought
would have been sufficiently striking. It seems to me that it would rather have afforded an
evidence of her invention! Such a biographical project reminds one of Plutarch's Parallels,
and might incur the danger of displaying more ingenuity than truth. The sage of Cheronea must
often have racked his invention to help out his parallels, bending together, to make them similar,
the most unconnected events and the most distinct feelings; and, to keep his parallels in two
straight lines, he probably made a free use of augmentatives and diminutives to help out his
pair, who might have been equal, and yet not alike!

Our fatherland is prodigal of immortal names, or names which might be made immortal; Gibbon
once contemplated with complacency, the very ideal of SENTIMENTAL BIOGRAPHY, and we may regret
that he has only left the project! "I have long revolved in my mind a volume of biographical
writing; the lives or rather the characters of the most eminent persons in arts and arms, in
church and state, who have flourished in Britain from the reign of Henry the Eighth to the
present age. The subject would afford a rich display of human nature and domestic history,
and powerfully address itself to the feelings of every Englishman."

FOOTNOTES:

  [265] "A Comment on the Divine Comedy of Dante," in English, printed
    in Italy, has just reached me. I am delighted to find that this
    biography of Love, however romantic, is true! In his ninth year,
    Dante was a lover and a poet! The tender sonnet, free from all
    obscurity, which he composed on Beatrice, is preserved in the above
    singular volume. There can be no longer any doubt of the story of
    Beatrice; but the sonnet and the passion must be "classed among
    curious natural phenomena," or how far apocryphal, remains for
    future inquiry.

  [266] This work was published in 1742, and the scarcity of these
    volumes was felt in Granger's day, for they obtained then the
    considerable price of four guineas; some time ago a fine copy was
    sold for thirty at a sale, and a cheap copy was offered to me at
    twelve guineas. These volumes should contain seventeen portraits.
    The first was written by Mr. Anderson, who, dying before the second
    appeared, Lord Egmont, from the materials Anderson had left,
    concluded his family history--con amore.

  [267] Mr. Anderson, the writer of the first volume, was a feudal
    enthusiast; he has thrown out an odd notion that the commercial, or
    the wealthy class, had intruded on the dignity of the ancient
    nobility; but as wealth has raised such high prices for labour,
    commodities, &c., it had reached its ne plus ultra, and commerce
    could be carried on no longer! He has ventured on this amusing
    prediction, "As it is therefore evident that NEW MEN will never
    rise again in any age with such advantages of wealth, at least in
    considerable numbers, their party will gradually decrease."

  [268] Much curious matter about the old Countess of Westmoreland and
    her seven castles may be found in Whitaker's History of Craven, and
    in Pennant.

LITERARY PARALLELS.

An opinion on this subject in the preceding article has led me to a further investigation.
It may be right to acknowledge that so attractive is this critical and moral amusement of comparing
great characters with one another, that, among others, Bishop Hurd once proposed to write a
book of Parallels, and has furnished a specimen in that of Petrarch and Rousseau, and intended
for another that of Erasmus with Cicero. It is amusing to observe how a lively and subtle mind
can strike out resemblances, and make contraries accord, and at the same time it may show the
pinching difficulties through which a parallel is pushed, till it ends in a paradox.

Hurd says of Petrarch and Rousseau--"Both were impelled by an equal enthusiasm, though directed
towards different objects: Petrarch's towards the glory of the Roman name, Rousseau's towards
his idol of a state of nature; the one religious, the other un esprit fort; but may not Petrarch's
spite to Babylon be considered, in his time, as a species of free-thinking"--and concludes,
that "both were mad, but of a different nature." Unquestionably there were features much alike,
and almost peculiar to these two literary characters; but I doubt if Hurd has comprehended
them in the parallel.

I now give a specimen of those parallels which have done so much mischief in the literary world,
when drawn by a hand which covertly leans on one side. An elaborate one of this sort was composed
by Longolius or Longuel, between Budæus and Erasmus.[269] This man, though of Dutch origin,
affected to pass for a Frenchman, and, to pay his court to his chosen people, gives the preference
obliquely to the French Budæus; though, to make a show of impartiality, he acknowledges that
Francis the First had awarded it to Erasmus; but probably he did not infer that kings were
the most able reviewers! This parallel was sent forth during the lifetime of both these great
scholars, who had long been correspondents, but the publication of the parallel interrupted
their friendly intercourse. Erasmus returned his compliments and thanks to Longolius, but at
the same time insinuates a gentle hint that he was not overpleased. "What pleases me most,"
Erasmus writes, "is the just preference you have given Budæus over me; I confess you are even
too economical in your praise of him, as you are too prodigal in mine. I thank you for informing
me what it is the learned desire to find in me; my self-love suggests many little excuses,
with which, you observe, I am apt to favour my defects. If I am careless, it arises partly
from my ignorance, and more from my indolence; I am so constituted, that I cannot conquer my
nature; I precipitate rather than compose, and it is far more irksome for me to revise than
to write."

This parallel between Erasmus and Budæus, though the parallel itself was not of a malignant
nature, yet disturbed the quiet, and interrupted the friendship of both. When Longolius discovered
that the Parisian surpassed the Hollander in Greek literature and the knowledge of the civil
law, and worked more learnedly and laboriously, how did this detract from the finer genius
and the varied erudition of the more delightful writer? The parallelist compares Erasmus to
"a river swelling its waters, and often overflowing its banks; Budæus rolled on like a majestic
stream, ever restraining its waves within its bed. The Frenchman has more nerve, and blood,
and life, and the Hollander more fulness, freshness, and colour."

The taste for biographical parallels must have reached us from Plutarch; and there is something
malicious in our nature which inclines us to form comparative estimates, usually with a view
to elevate one great man at the cost of another, whom we would secretly depreciate. Our political
parties at home have often indulged in these fallacious parallels, and Pitt and Fox once balanced
the scales, not by the standard weights and measures which ought to have been used, but by
the adroitness of the hand that pressed down the scale. In literature, these comparative estimates
have proved most prejudicial. A finer model exists not than the parallel of Dryden and Pope,
by Johnson; for, without designing any undue preference, his vigorous judgment has analysed
them by his contrasts, and has rather shown their distinctness than their similarity. But literary
parallels usually end in producing parties; and, as I have elsewhere observed, often originate
in undervaluing one man of genius, for his deficiency in some eminent quality possessed by
the other man of genius; they not unfrequently proceed from adverse tastes, and are formed
with the concealed design of establishing some favourite one. The world of literature has been
deeply infected with this folly. Virgil probably was often vexed in his days by a parallel
with Homer, and the Homerians combated with the Virgilians. Modern Italy was long divided into
such literary sects: a perpetual skirmishing is carried on between the Ariostoists and the
Tassoists; and feuds as dire as those between two Highland clans were raised concerning the
Petrarchists, and the Chiabrerists. Old Corneille lived to bow his venerable genius before
a parallel with Racine; and no one has suffered more unjustly by such arbitrary criticisms
than Pope, for a strange unnatural civil war has often been renewed between the Drydenists
and the Popeists. Two men of great genius should never be depreciated by the misapplied ingenuity
of a parallel; on such occasions we ought to conclude magis pares quam similes.

FOOTNOTE:

  [269] It is noticed by Jortin in his Life of Erasmus, vol. i. p. 160.

THE PEARL BIBLES AND SIX THOUSAND ERRATA.

As a literary curiosity, I notice a subject which might rather enter into the history of religion.
It relates to the extraordinary state of our English Bibles, which were for some time suffered
to be so corrupted that no books ever yet swarmed with such innumerable errata!

These errata unquestionably were in great part voluntary commissions, passages interpolated,
and meanings forged for certain purposes; sometimes to sanction the new creed of a half-hatched
sect, and sometimes with an intention to destroy all scriptural authority by a confusion, or
an omission of texts--the whole was left open to the option or the malignity of the editors,
who, probably, like certain ingenious wine-merchants, contrived to accommodate "the waters
of life" to their customers' peculiar taste. They had also a project of printing Bibles as
cheaply and in a form as contracted as they possibly could for the common people; and they
proceeded till it nearly ended with having no Bible at all: and, as Fuller, in his "Mixt Contemplations
on Better Times," alluding to this circumstance, with not one of his lucky quibbles, observes,
"The small price of the Bible has caused the small prizing of the Bible."

This extraordinary attempt on the English Bible began even before Charles the First's dethronement,
and probably arose from an unusual demand for Bibles, as the sectarian fanaticism was increasing.
Printing of English Bibles was an article of open trade; every one printed at the lowest price,
and as fast as their presses would allow. Even those who were dignified as "his Majesty's Printers"
were among these manufacturers; for we have an account of a scandalous omission by them of
the important negative in the seventh commandment! The printers were summoned before the Court
of High Commission, and this not served to bind them in a fine of three thousand pounds! A
prior circumstance, indeed, had occurred, which induced the government to be more vigilant
on the Biblical Press. The learned Usher, one day hastening to preach at Paul's Cross, entered
the shop of one of the stationers, as booksellers were then called, and inquiring for a Bible
of the London edition, when he came to look for his text, to his astonishment and horror he
discovered that the verse was omitted in the Bible! This gave the first occasion of complaint
to the king of the insufferable negligence and incapacity of the London press: and, says the
manuscript writer of this anecdote, first bred that great contest which followed, between the
University of Cambridge and the London stationers, about the right of printing Bibles.[270]

The secret bibliographical history of these times would show the extraordinary state of the
press in this new trade of Bibles. The writer of a curious pamphlet exposes the combination
of those called the king's printers, with their contrivances to keep up the prices of Bibles;
their correspondence with the booksellers of Scotland and Dublin, by which means they retained
the privilege in their own hands: the king's London printers got Bibles printed cheaper at
Edinburgh. In 1629, when folio Bibles were wanted, the Cambridge printers sold them at ten
shillings in quires; on this the Londoners set six printing-houses at work, and, to annihilate
the Cambridgians, printed a similar folio Bible, but sold with it five hundred quarto Roman
Bibles, and five hundred quarto English, at five shillings a book; which proved the ruin of
the folio Bibles, by keeping them down under the cost price. Another competition arose among
those who printed English Bibles in Holland, in duodecimo, with an English colophon, for half
the price even of the lowest in London. Twelve thousand of these duodecimo Bibles, with notes,
fabricated in Holland, usually by our fugitive sectarians, were seized by the king's printers,
as contrary to the statute.[271] Such was this shameful war of Bibles--folios, quartos, and
duodecimos, even in the days of Charles the First. The public spirit of the rising sects was
the real occasion of these increased demands for Bibles.

During the civil wars they carried on the same open trade and competition, besides the private
ventures of the smuggled Bibles. A large impression of these Dutch English Bibles were burnt
by order of the Assembly of Divines, for these three errors:--

Gen. xxxvi. 24.--This is that ass that found rulers in the wilderness--for mule.

Ruth iv. 13.--The Lord gave her corruption--for conception.

Luke xxi. 28.--Look up, and lift up your hands, for your condemnation draweth nigh--for redemption.

These errata were none of the printer's; but, as a writer of the times expresses it, "egregious
blasphemies, and damnable errata" of some sectarian, or some Bellamy editor of that day!

The printing of Bibles at length was a privilege conceded to one William Bentley; but he was
opposed by Hills and Field; and a paper war arose, in which they mutually recriminated on each
other, with equal truth.

Field printed, in 1653, what was called the Pearl Bible; alluding, I suppose, to that diminutive
type in printing, for it could not derive its name from its worth. It is in twenty-fours;[272]
but to contract the mighty book into this dwarfishness, all the original Hebrew text prefixed
to the Psalms, explaining the occasion and the subject of their composition, is wholly expunged.
This Pearl Bible, which may be inspected among the great collection of our English Bibles at
the British Museum, is set off by many notable errata, of which these are noticed:--

Romans vi. 13.--Neither yield ye your members as instruments of righteousness unto sin--for
unrighteousness.

First Corinthians vi. 9.--Know ye not that the unrighteous shall inherit the kingdom of God?--for
shall not inherit.

This erratum served as the foundation of a dangerous doctrine; for many libertines urged the
text from this corrupt Bible against the reproofs of a divine.

This Field was a great forger; and it is said that he received a present of 1500l. from the
Independents to corrupt a text in Acts vi. 3, to sanction the right of the people to appoint
their own pastors.[273] The corruption was the easiest possible; it was only to put a ye instead
of a we; so that the right in Field's Bible emanated from the people, not from the apostles.
The only account I recollect of this extraordinary state of our Bibles is a happy allusion
in a line of Butler:--

  Religion spawn'd a various rout,
  Of petulant, capricious sects,
  THE MAGGOTS OF CORRUPTED TEXTS.

In other Bibles by Hills and Field we may find such abundant errata, reducing the text to nonsense
or to blasphemy, making the Scriptures contemptible to the multitude, who came to pray, and
not to scoff.

It is affirmed, in the manuscript account already referred to, that one Bible swarmed with
six thousand faults! Indeed, from another source we discover that "Sterne, a solid scholar,
was the first who summed up the three thousand and six hundred faults that were in our printed
Bibles of London."[274] If one book can be made to contain near four thousand errors, little
ingenuity was required to reach to six thousand; but perhaps this is the first time so remarkable
an incident in the history of literature has ever been chronicled. And that famous edition
of the Vulgate, by Pope Sixtus the Fifth, a memorable book of blunders, which commands such
high prices, ought now to fall in value, before the pearl Bible, in twenty-fours, of Messrs.
Hills and Field!

Mr. Field and his worthy coadjutor seem to have carried the favour of the reigning powers over
their opponents; for I find a piece of their secret history. They engaged to pay 500l. per
annum to some, "whose names I forbear to mention," warily observes the manuscript writer; and
above 100l. per annum to Mr. Marchmont Needham and his wife, out of the profits of the sales
of their Bibles; deriding, insulting, and triumphing over others, out of their confidence in
their great friends and purse, as if they were lawless and free, both from offence and punishment.[275]
This Marchmont Needham is sufficiently notorious, and his secret history is probably true;
for in a Mercurius Politicus of this unprincipled Cobbett of his day, I found an elaborate
puff of an edition published by the annuity-granter to this worthy and his wife!

Not only had the Bible to suffer these indignities of size and price, but the Prayer-book was
once printed in an illegible and worn-out type; on which the printer being complained of, he
stoutly replied, that "it was as good as the price afforded; and being a book which all persons
ought to have by heart, it was no matter whether it was read or not, so that it was worn out
in their hands." The puritans seem not to have been so nice about the source of purity itself.

These hand-bibles of the sectarists, with their six thousand errata, like the false Duessa,
covered their crafty deformity with a fair raiment; for when the great Selden, in the assembly
of divines, delighted to confute them in their own learning, he would say, as Whitelock reports,
when they had cited a text to prove their assertion, "Perhaps in your little pocket-bible with
gilt leaves," which they would often pull out and read, "the translation may be so, but the
Greek or the Hebrew signifies this."

While these transactions were occurring, it appears that the authentic translation of the Bible,
such as we now have it, by the learned translators in James the First's time, was suffered
to lie neglected. The copies of the original manuscript were in the possession of two of the
king's printers, who, from cowardice, consent, and connivance, suppressed the publication;
considering that the Bible full of errata, and often, probably, accommodated to the notions
of certain sectarists, was more valuable than one authenticated by the hierarchy! Such was
the state of the English Bible till 1660![276]

The proverbial expression of chapter and verse seems peculiar to ourselves, and, I suspect,
originated in the puritanic period, probably just before the civil wars under Charles the First,
from the frequent use of appealing to the Bible on the most frivolous occasions, practised
by those whom South calls "those mighty men at chapter and verse." With a sort of religious
coquetry, they were vain of perpetually opening their gilt pocket Bibles; they perked them
up with such self-sufficiency and perfect ignorance of the original, that the learned Selden
found considerable amusement in going to their "assembly of divines," and puzzling or confuting
them, as we have noticed. A ludicrous anecdote on one of these occasions is given by a contemporary,
which shows how admirably that learned man amused himself with this "assembly of divines!"
They were discussing the distance between Jerusalem and Jericho, with a perfect ignorance of
sacred or of ancient geography; one said it was twenty miles, another ten, and at last it was
concluded to be only seven, for this strange reason, that fish was brought from Jericho to
Jerusalem market! Selden observed, that "possibly the fish in question was salted," and silenced
these acute disputants.

It would probably have greatly discomposed these "chapter and verse" men to have informed them
that the Scriptures had neither chapter nor verse! It is by no means clear how the holy writings
were anciently divided, and still less how quoted or referred to. The honour of the invention
of the present arrangement of the Scriptures is ascribed to Robert Stephens, by his son, in
the preface to his Concordance, a task which he performed during a journey on horseback from
Paris to London, in 1551; and whether it was done as Yorick would in his Shandean manner lounging
on his mule, or at his intermediate baits, he has received all possible thanks for this employment
of his time. Two years afterwards he concluded with the Bible. But that the honour of every
invention may be disputed, Sanctus Pagninus's Bible, printed at Lyons in 1527, seems to have
led the way to these convenient divisions; Stephens, however, improved on Pagninus's mode of
paragraphical marks and marginal verses; and our present "chapter and verse," more numerous
and more commodiously numbered, were the project of this learned printer, to recommend his
edition of the Bible; trade and learning were once combined! Whether in this arrangement any
disturbance of the continuity of the text has followed, is a subject not fitted for my inquiry.

FOOTNOTES:

  [270] Harl. MS. 6395.

  [271] "Scintilla, or a light broken into darke Warehouses; of some
    Printers, sleeping Stationers, and combining Booksellers; in which
    is only a touch of their forestalling and ingrossing of Books in
    Pattents, and raysing them to excessive prises. Left to the
    consideration of the high and honourable House of Parliament, now
    assembled. London: Nowhere to be sold, but somewhere to be given."
    1641.

  [272] A technical printing-term for a sheet containing twenty-four
    pages.

  [273] The passage is as follows, and is addressed by the apostles to
    "the multitude of the disciples," who desired an improved clerical
    rule:--"Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of
    honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may
    appoint over this business."

  [274] G. Garrard's Letter to the Earl of Strafford, vol. i. p. 208.

  [275] Harl. MS. 7580.

  [276] See the London Printers' Lamentation on the Press Oppressed.
    Harl. Coll. iii. 280.

VIEW OF A PARTICULAR PERIOD OF THE STATE OF RELIGION IN OUR CIVIL WARS.

Looking over the manuscript diary of Sir Symonds D'Ewes, I was struck by a picture of the domestic
religious life which at that period was prevalent among families. Sir Symonds was a sober antiquary,
heated with no fanaticism, yet I discovered in his diary that he was a visionary in his constitution,
macerating his body by private fasts, and spiritualising in search of secret signs. These ascetic
penances were afterwards succeeded in the nation by an era of hypocritical sanctity; and we
may trace this last stage of insanity and of immorality closing with impiety. This would be
a dreadful picture of religion, if for a moment we supposed that it were religion; that consolatory
power which has its source in our feelings, and according to the derivation of its expressive
term, binds men together. With us it was sectarism, whose origin and causes we shall not now
touch on, which broke out into so many monstrous shapes, when every pretended reformer was
guided by his own peculiar fancies: we have lived to prove that folly and wickedness are rarely
obsolete.

The age of Sir Symonds D'Ewes, who lived through the times of Charles the First, was religious;
for the character of this monarch had all the seriousness and piety not found in the bonhomie
and careless indecorums of his father, whose manners of the Scottish court were moulded on
the gaieties of the French, from the ancient intercourse of the French and Scottish governments.
But this religious age of Charles the First presents a strange contrast with the licentiousness
which subsequently prevailed among the people: there seems to be a secret connexion between
a religious and an irreligious period: the levity of popular feeling is driven to and fro by
its reaction; when man has been once taught to contemn his mere humanity, his abstract fancies
open a secret bye-path to his presumed salvation; he wanders till he is lost--he trembles till
he dotes in melancholy--he raves till truth itself is no longer immutable. The transition to
a very opposite state is equally rapid and vehement. Such is the history of man when his religion
is founded on misdirected feelings; and such, too, is the reaction so constantly operating
in all human affairs.

The writer of this diary did not belong to those nonconformists who arranged themselves in
hostility to the established religion and political government of our country. A private gentleman
and a phlegmatic antiquary, Sir Symonds withal was a zealous Church of England protestant.
Yet amidst the mystical allusions of an age of religious controversies, we see these close
in the scenes we are about to open, and find this quiet gentleman tormenting himself and his
lady by watching for "certain evident marks and signs of an assurance for a better life," with
I know not how many distinct sorts of "Graces."

I give an extract from the manuscript diary:--

   "I spent this day chiefly in private fasting, prayer, and other
   religious exercises. This was the first time that I ever practised
   this duty, having always before declined it, by reason of the
   papists' superstitious abuses of it. I had partaken formerly of
   public fasts, but never knew the use and benefit of the same duty
   performed alone in secret, or with others of mine own family in
   private. In these particulars, I had my knowledge much enlarged by
   the religious converse I enjoyed at Albury Lodge, for there also I
   shortly after entered upon framing an evidence of marks and signs
   for my assurance of a better life.

   "I found much benefit of my secret fasting, from a learned
   discourse on fasting by Mr. Henry Mason, and observed his rule, that
   Christians ought to sit sometimes apart for their ordinary
   humiliation and fasting, and so intend to continue the same course as
   long as my health will permit me. Yet did I vary the times and
   duration of my fasting. At first, before I had finished the marks
   and signs of my assurance of a better life, which scrutiny and search
   cost me some three-score days of fasting, I performed it sometimes
   twice in the space of five weeks, then once each month, or a little
   sooner or later, and then also I sometimes ended the duties of the
   day, and took some little food about three of the clock in the
   afternoon. But for divers years last past, I constantly abstained
   from all food the whole day. I fasted till supper-time, about six in
   the evening, and spent ordinarily about eight or nine hours in the
   performance of religious duties; one part of which was prayer and
   confession of sins, to which end I wrote down a catalogue of all my
   known sins, orderly. These were all sins of infirmity; for,
   through God's grace, I was so far from allowing myself in the
   practice and commission of any actual sin, as I durst not take upon
   me any controversial sins, as usury, carding, dicing, mixt dancing,
   and the like, because I was in mine own judgment persuaded they were
   unlawful. Till I had finished my assurance first in English and
   afterwards in Latin, with a large and an elaborate preface in Latin
   also to it; I spent a great part of the day at that work, &c.

   "Saturday, December 1, 1627, I devoted to my usual course of secret
   fasting, and drew divers signs of my assurance of a better life
   from the grace of repentance, having before gone through the
   graces of knowledge, faith, hope, love, zeal, patience, humility,
   and joy; and drawing several marks from them on like days of
   humiliation for the greater part. My dear wife beginning also to draw
   most certain signs of her own future happiness after death from
   several graces.

   "January 19, 1628.--Saturday I spent in secret humiliation and
   fastings, and finished my whole assurance to a better life,
   consisting of THREE SCORE and FOUR SIGNS, or marks drawn from
   several graces. I made some small alterations in the signs
   afterwards; and when I turned them into the Latin tongue, I enriched
   the margent with further proofs and authorities. I found much
   comfort and reposedness of spirit from them, which shows the devilish
   sophisms of the papists, anabaptists, and pseudo-Lutherans, and
   profane atheistical men, who say that assurance brings forth
   presumption, and a careless wicked life. True, when men pretend to
   the end, and not use the means.

   "My wife joined with me in a private day of fasting, and drew
   several signs and marks by MY help and assistance, for her
   assurance to a better life."

This was an era of religious diaries, particularly among the nonconformists; but they were,
as we see, used by others. Of the Countess of Warwick, who died in 1678, we are told that "she
kept a diary, and took counsel with two persons, whom she called her soul's friends." She called
prayers heart's ease, for such she found them. "Her own lord, knowing her hours of prayers,
once conveyed a godly minister into a secret place within hearing, who, being a man very able
to judge, much admired her humble fervency; for in praying she prayed aloud; but when she did
not with an audible voice, her sighs and groans might be heard at a good distance from the
closet." We are not surprised to discover this practice of religious diaries among the more
puritanic sort: what they were we may gather from this description of one. Mr. John Janeway
"kept a diary, in which he wrote down every evening what the frame of his spirit had been all
that day; he took notice what incomes he had, what profit he received in his spiritual traffic:
what returns came from that far country; what answers of prayer, what deadness and flatness
of spirit," &c. And so we find of Mr. John Carter, that "He kept a day-book and cast up his
accounts with God every day."[277] To such worldly notions had they humiliated the spirit of
religion; and this style, and this mode of religion, has long been continued among us even
among men of superior acquisitions: as witness the "Spiritual Diary and Soliloquies" of a learned
physician within our own times, Dr. Rutty, which is a great curiosity of the kind.

Such was the domestic state of many well-meaning families: they were rejecting with the utmost
abhorrence every resemblance to what they called the idolatry of Rome, while, in fact, the
gloom of the monastic cell was settling over the houses of these melancholy puritans. Private
fasts were more than ever practised; and a lady, said to be eminent for her genius and learning,
who outlived this era, declared that she had nearly lost her life through a prevalent notion
that no fat person could get to heaven; and thus spoiled and wasted her body through excessive
fastings. A quaker, to prove the text that "Man shall not live by bread alone, but by the word
of God," persisted in refusing his meals. The literal text proved for him a dead letter, and
this practical commentator died by a metaphor. This quaker, however, was not the only victim
to the letter of the text; for the famous Origen, by interpreting in too literal a way the
12th verse of the 19th of St. Matthew, which alludes to those persons who become eunuchs for
the kingdom of heaven, with his own hands armed himself against himself, as is sufficiently
known. "Retournons à nos moutons!" The parliament afterwards had both periodical and occasional
fasts; and Charles the First opposed "the hypocritical fast of every Wednesday in the month,
by appointing one for the second Friday;" the two unhappy parties, who were hungering and thirsting
for each other's blood, were fasting in spite one against the other!

Without inquiring into the causes, even if we thought that we could ascertain them, of that
frightful dissolution of religion which so long prevailed in our country, and of which the
very corruption it has left behind still breeds in monstrous shapes, it will be sufficient
to observe that the destruction of the monarchy and the ecclesiastical order was a moral earthquake,
overturning all minds, and opening all changes. A theological logomachy was substituted by
the sullen and proud ascetics who ascended into power. These, without wearying themselves,
wearied all others, and triumphed over each other by their mutual obscurity. The two great
giants in this theological war were the famous Richard Baxter and Dr. Owen. They both wrote
a library of books; but the endless controversy between them was the extraordinary and incomprehensible
subject, whether the death of Christ was solutio ejusdem, or only tantundem; that is, whether
it was a payment of the very thing, which by law we ought to have paid, or of something held
by God to be equivalent. Such was the point on which this debate between Owen and Baxter lasted
without end.

Yet these metaphysical absurdities were harmless, compared to what was passing among the more
hot fanatics, who were for acting the wild fancies which their melancholy brains engendered;
men, who from the places into which they had thrust themselves, might now be called "the higher
orders of society!" These two parties alike sent forth an evil spirit to walk among the multitude.
Every one would become his own law-maker, and even his own prophet; the meanest aspired to
give his name to his sect. All things were to be put in motion according to the St. Vitus's
dance of the last new saint. "Away with the Law! which cuts off a man's legs and then bids
him walk!" cried one from his pulpit. "Let believers sin as fast as they will, they have a
fountain open to wash them;" declared another teacher. We had the Brownists, from Robert Brown,
the Vaneists, from Sir Harry Vane, then we sink down to Mr. Traske, Mr. Wilkinson, Mr. Robinson,
and H. N., or Henry Nicholas, of the Family of Love, besides Mrs. Hutchinson, and the Grindletonian
family, who preferred "motions to motives," and conveniently assumed that "their spirit is
not to be tried by the Scripture, but the Scripture by their spirit." Edwards, the author of
"Gangræna," the adversary of Milton, whose work may still be preserved for its curiosity, though
immortalised by the scourge of genius, has furnished a list of about two hundred of such sects
in these times. A divine of the Church of England observed to a great sectary, "You talk of
the idolatry of Rome: but each of you, whenever you have made and set up a calf, will dance
about it."[278]

This confusion of religions, if, indeed, these pretended modes of faith could be classed among
religions, disturbed the consciences of good men, who read themselves in and out of their vacillating
creed. It made, at least, even one of the puritans themselves, who had formerly complained
that they had not enjoyed sufficient freedom under the bishops, cry out against "this cursed
intolerable toleration." And the fact is, that when the presbyterians had fixed themselves
into the government, they published several treatises against toleration! The parallel between
these wild notions of reform, and those of another character, run closely together. About this
time, well-meaning persons, who were neither enthusiasts from the ambition of founding sects,
nor of covering their immorality by their impiety, were infected by the religiosa insania.
One case may stand for many. A Mr. Greswold, a gentleman of Warwickshire, whom a Brownist had
by degrees enticed from his parish church, was afterwards persuaded to return to it--but he
returned with a troubled mind, and lost in the prevalent theological contests. A horror of
his future existence shut him out, as it were, from his present one: retiring into his own
house, with his children, he ceased to communicate with the living world. He had his food put
in at the window; and when his children lay sick, he admitted no one for their relief. His
house at length was forced open, and they found two children dead, and the father confined
to his bed. He had mangled his Bible, and cut out the titles, contents, and everything but
the very text itself; for it seems that he thought that everything human was sinful, and he
conceived that the titles of the books and the contents of the chapters were to be cut out
of the sacred Scriptures, as having been composed by men.[279]

More terrible it was when the insanity, which had hitherto been more confined to the better
classes, burst forth among the common people. Were we to dwell minutely on this period, we
should start from the picture with horror: we might, perhaps, console ourselves with a disbelief
of its truth; but the drug, though bitter in the mouth, we must sometimes digest. To observe
the extent to which the populace can proceed, disfranchised of law and religion, will always
leave a memorable recollection.

What occurred in the French Revolution had happened here--an age of impiety! Society itself
seemed dissolved, for every tie of private affection and of public duty was unloosened. Even
nature was strangely violated! From the first opposition to the decorous ceremonies of the
national church, by the simple puritans, the next stage was that of ridicule, and the last
of obloquy. They began by calling the surplice a linen rag on the back; baptism a Christ's
cross on a baby's face; and the organ was likened to the bellow, the grunt, and the barking
of the respective animals. They actually baptized horses in churches at the fonts; and the
jest of that day was, that the Reformation was now a thorough one in England, since our horses
went to church.[280] St. Paul's cathedral was turned into a market, and the aisles, the communion-table,
and the altar, served for the foulest purposes.[281] The liberty which every one now assumed
of delivering his own opinions, led to acts so execrable, that I can find no parallel for them
except in the mad times of the French Revolution. Some maintained that there existed no distinction
between moral good and moral evil; and that every man's actions were prompted by the Creator.
Prostitution was professed as a religious act; a glazier was declared to be a prophet, and
the woman he cohabited with was said to be ready to lie in of the Messiah. A man married his
father's wife. Murders of the most extraordinary nature were occurring; one woman crucified
her mother; another, in imitation of Abraham, sacrificed her child; we hear, too, of parricides.
Amidst the slaughters of civil wars, spoil and blood had accustomed the people to contemplate
the most horrible scenes. One madman of the many, we find drinking a health on his knees, in
the midst of a town, "to the devil! that it might be said that his family should not be extinct
without doing some infamous act." A Scotchman, one Alexander Agnew, commonly called "Jock of
broad Scotland," whom one cannot call an atheist, for he does not seem to deny the existence
of the Creator, nor a future state, had a shrewdness of local humour in his strange notions.
Omitting some offensive things, others as strange may exhibit the state to which the reaction
of an hypocritical system of religion had driven the common people. "Jock of broad Scotland"
said he was nothing in God's common, for God had given him nothing; he was no more obliged
to God than to the devil; for God was very greedy. Neither God nor the devil gave the fruits
of the ground; the wives of the country gave him his meat. When asked wherein he believed,
he answered, "He believed in white meal, water, and salt. Christ was not God; for he came into
the world after it was made, and died as other men." He declared that "he did not know whether
God or the devil had the greatest power; but he thought the devil was the greatest. When I
die, let God and the devil strive for my soul, and let him that is strongest take it." He no
doubt had been taught by the presbytery to mock religious rites; and when desired to give God
thanks for his meat, he said, "Take a sackful of prayers to the mill and grind them, and take
your breakfast of them." To others he said, "I will give you a two-pence, to pray until a boll
of meal, and one stone of butter, fall from heaven through the house rigging (roof) to you."
When bread and cheese were laid on the ground by him, he said, "If I leave this, I will long
cry to God before he give it me again." To others he said, "Take a bannock, and break it in
two, and lay down one half thereof, and you will long pray to God before he will put the other
half to it again!" He seems to have been an anti-trinitarian. He said he received everything
from nature, which had ever reigned and ever would. He would not conform to any religious system,
nor name the three Persons,--"At all these things I have long shaken my cap," he said. "Jock
of broad Scotland" seems to have been one of those who imagine that God should have furnished
them with bannocks ready baked.

The extravagant fervour then working in the minds of the people is marked by the story told
by Clement Walker of the soldier who entered a church with a lantern and a candle burning in
it, and in the other hand four candles not lighted. He said he came to deliver his message
from God, and show it by these types of candles. Driven into the churchyard, and the wind blowing
strong, he could not kindle his candles, and the new prophet was awkwardly compelled to conclude
his five denouncements, abolishing the Sabbath, tithes, ministers, magistrates, and, at last,
the Bible itself, without putting out each candle, as he could not kindle them; observing,
however, each time--"And here I should put out the first light, but the wind is so high that
I cannot kindle it."

A perfect scene of the effects which the state of irreligious society produced among the lower
orders I am enabled to give from the manuscript life of John Shaw, vicar of Rotherham; with
a little tediousness, but with infinite naïveté, he relates what happened to himself. This
honest divine was puritanically inclined, but there can be no exaggeration in these unvarnished
facts. He tells a remarkable story of the state of religious knowledge in Lancashire, at a
place called Cartmel: some of the people appeared desirous of religious instruction, declaring
that they were without any minister, and had entirely neglected every religious rite, and therefore
pressed him to quit his situation at Lymm for a short period. He may now tell his own story.

   "I found a very large spacious church, scarce any seats in it; a
   people very ignorant, and yet willing to learn; so as I had
   frequently some thousands of hearers, I catechised in season and out
   of season. The churches were so thronged at nine in the morning, that
   I had much ado to get to the pulpit. One day, an old man about sixty,
   sensible enough in other things, and living in the parish of Cartmel,
   coming to me on some business, I told him that he belonged to my care
   and charge, and I desired to be informed of his knowledge in
   religion. I asked him how many Gods there were? He said he knew not.
   I informing him, asked again how he thought to be saved? He answered
   he could not tell. Yet thought that was a harder question than the
   other. I told him that the way to salvation was by Jesus Christ,
   God-man, who as he was man shed his blood for us on the cross, &c.
   Oh, sir, said he, I think I heard of that man you speak of once in a
   play at Kendall, called Corpus-Christ's play,[282] where there was a
   man on a tree and blood run down, &c. And afterwards he professed he
   could not remember that he ever heard of salvation by Jesus, but in
   that play."

The scenes passing in the metropolis, as well as in the country, are opened to us in one of
the chronicling poems of George Withers. Our sensible rhymer wrote in November, 1652, "a Darke
Lanthorne" on the present subject.

After noticing that God, to mortify us, had sent preachers from the "shop-board and the plough,"

      ----Such as we seem justly to contemn,
  As making truths abhorred, which come from them;

he seems, however, inclined to think that these self-taught "Teachers and Prophets" in their
darkness might hold a certain light within them:

                  ----Children, fools,
  Women, and madmen, we do often meet
  Preaching, and threatening judgments in the street,
  Yea by strange actions, postures, tones, and cries,
  Themselves they offer to our ears and eyes
  As signs unto this nation.----
  They act as men in ecstacies have done----
  Striving their cloudy visions to declare,
  Till they have lost the notions which they had,
  And want but few degrees of being mad.[283]

Such is the picture of the folly and of the wickedness, which, after having been preceded by
the piety of a religious age, were succeeded by a dominion of hypocritical sanctity, and then
closed in all the horrors of immorality and impiety. The parliament at length issued one of
their ordinances for "punishing blasphemous and execrable opinions," and this was enforced
with greater power than the slighted proclamations of James and Charles; but the curious wording
is a comment on our present subject. The preamble notices that "men and women had lately discovered
monstrous opinions, even such as tended to the dissolution of human society, and have abused,
and turned into licentiousness, the liberty given in matters of religion." It punishes any
person not distempered in his brains, who shall maintain any mere creature to be God; or that
all acts of unrighteousness are not forbidden in the Scriptures; or that God approves of them;
or that there is no real difference between moral good and evil, &c.

To this disordered state was the public mind reduced, for this proclamation was only describing
what was passing among the people! The view of this subject embraces more than one point, which
I leave for the meditation of the politician, as well as the religionist.

FOOTNOTES:

  [277] "The Lives of Sundry Eminent Persons in this Later Age;" by
    Samuel Clarke. Folio, 1683. A rare volume, with curious portraits.

  [278] Alexander Ross's laborious "View of all Religions" may also be
    consulted with advantage by those who would study this subject.

  [279] "The Hypocrite Discovered and Cured," by Sam. Torshall, 4to.
    1644.

  [280] There is a pamphlet which records a strange fact. "News from
    Powles: or the new Reformation of the army, with a true Relation of
    a Colt that was foaled in the Cathedral Church of St. Paul, in
    London, and how it was publiquely baptised, and the name (because a
    bald colt) was called Baal-Rex!" 1649. The water they sprinkled from
    the soldier's helmet on this occasion is described. The same
    occurred elsewhere. See Foulis's History of the Plots, &c., of our
    pretended Saints. These men, who baptized horses and pigs in the
    name of the Trinity, sang psalms when they marched. One cannot
    easily comprehend the nature of fanaticism, except when we learn
    that they refused to pay rents!

  [281] That curious compilation by Bruno Ryves, published in 1646,
    with the title "Mercurius Rusticus, or the countrie's complaint of
    the barbarous outrages committed by the sectaries of this late
    flourishing kingdom," furnishes a fearful detail of "sacrileges,
    profanations, and plunderings committed in the cathedrall churches."

  [282] The festival of Corpus Christi, held on the first Thursday
    after Trinity Sunday, was the period chosen in old times for the
    performances of miracle-plays by the clergy, or the guilds of
    various towns; for an account of them see vol. i. p. 352-362.

  [283] There is a little "Treatise of Humilitie, published by
    E.D.--Parson, sequestered"--1654; in which, while enforcing the
    virtue which his book defends, he with much naïveté gives a strong
    opinion of his oppressors. "We acknowledge the justice and mercy of
    the Lord in punishing us, so we take notice of his wisdom in
    choosing such instruments to punish us, men of mean and low rank,
    and of common parts and abilities. By these he doth admonish all
    the honourable, valiant, learned, and wise men of this nation; and
    as it were write our sin, in the character of our punishment; and in
    the low condition of these instruments of his anger and
    displeasure, the rod of his wrath, he would abate and punish our
    great pride."

BUCKINGHAM'S POLITICAL COQUETRY WITH THE PURITANS.

Buckingham, observes Hume, "in order to fortify himself against the resentment of James"--on
the conduct of the duke in the Spanish match, when James was latterly hearing every day Buckingham
against Bristol, and Bristol against Buckingham--"had affected popularity, and entered into
the cabals of the puritans; but afterwards, being secure of the confidence of Charles, he had
since abandoned this party; and on that account was the more exposed to their hatred and resentment."

The political coquetry of a minister coalescing with an opposition party, when he was on the
point of being disgraced, would doubtless open an involved scene of intrigue; and what one
exacted, and the other was content to yield, towards the mutual accommodation, might add one
more example to the large chapter of political infirmity. Both workmen attempting to convert
each other into tools, by first trying their respective malleability on the anvil, are liable
to be disconcerted by even a slight accident, whenever that proves, to perfect conviction,
how little they can depend on each other, and that each party comes to cheat, and not to be
cheated!

This piece of secret history is in part recoverable from good authority. The two great actors
were the Duke of Buckingham and Dr. Preston, the master of Emmanual College, and the head of
the puritan party.

Dr. Preston was an eminent character, who from his youth was not without ambition. His scholastic
learning, the subtilty of his genius, and his more elegant accomplishments, had attracted the
notice of James, at whose table he was perhaps more than once honoured as a guest; a suspicion
of his puritanic principles was perhaps the only obstacle to his court preferment; yet Preston
unquestionably designed to play a political part. He retained the favour of James by the king's
hope of withdrawing the doctor from the opposition party, and commanded the favour of Buckingham
by the fears of that minister; when, to employ the quaint style of Hacket, the duke foresaw
that "he might come to be tried in the furnace of the next sessions of parliament, and he had
need to make the refiners his friends:" most of these "refiners" were the puritanic or opposition
party. Appointed one of the chaplains of Prince Charles, Dr. Preston had the advantage of being
in frequent attendance; and as Hacket tells us, "this politic man felt the pulse of the court,
and wanted not the intelligence of all dark mysteries through the Scotch in his highness's
bed-chamber." A close communication took place between the duke and Preston, who, as Hacket
describes, was "a good crow to smell carrion." He obtained an easy admission to the duke's
closet at least thrice a week, and their notable conferences Buckingham appears to have communicated
to his confidential friends. Preston, intent on carrying all his points, skilfully commenced
with the smaller ones. He winded the duke circuitously,--he worked at him subterraneously.
This wary politician was too sagacious to propose what he had at heart--the extirpation of
the hierarchy! The thunder of James's voice, "No bishop! no king!" in the conference at Hampton
Court, still echoed in the ear of the puritan. He assured the duke that the love of the people
was his only anchor, which could only be secured by the most popular measures. A new sort of
reformation was easy to execute. Cathedrals and collegiate churches maintained by vast wealth,
and the lands of the chapter, only fed "fat, lazy, and unprofitable drones." The dissolution
of the foundations of deans and chapters would open an ample source to pay the king's debts,
and scatter the streams of patronage. "You would then become the darling of the commonwealth;"
I give the words as I find them in Hacket. "If a crumb stick in the throat of any considerable
man that attempts an opposition, it will be easy to wash it down with manors, woods, royalties,
tythes, &c." It would be furnishing the wants of a number of gentlemen; and he quoted a Greek
proverb, "that when a great oak falls, every neighbour may scuffle for a faggot."

Dr. Preston was willing to perform the part which Knox had acted in Scotland! He might have
been certain of a party to maintain this national violation of property; for he who calls out
"Plunder!" will ever find a gang. These acts of national injustice, so much desired by revolutionists,
are never beneficial to the people; they never partake of the spoliation, and the whole terminates
in the gratification of private rapacity.

It was not, however, easy to obtain such perpetual access to the minister, and at the same
time escape from the watchful. Archbishop Williams, the lord keeper, got sufficient hints from
the king; and in a tedious conference with the duke, he wished to convince him that Preston
had only offered him "flitten milk, out of which he should churn nothing!" The duke was, however,
smitten by the new project, and made a remarkable answer: "You lose yourself in generalities:
make it out to me, in particular, if you can, that the motion you pick at will find repulse,
and be baffled in the House of Commons. I know not how you bishops may struggle, but I am much
deluded if a great part of the knights and burgesses would not be glad to see this alteration."
We are told on this, that Archbishop Williams took out a list of the members of the House of
Commons, and convinced the minister that an overwhelming majority would oppose this projected
revolution, and that in consequence the duke gave it up.

But this anterior decision of the duke may be doubtful, since Preston still retained the high
favour of the minister, after the death of James. When James died at Theobalds, where Dr. Preston
happened to be in attendance, he had the honour of returning to town in the new king's coach
with the Duke of Buckingham. The doctor's servile adulation of the minister gave even great
offence to the over-zealous puritans. That he was at length discarded is certain; but this
was owing not to any deficient subserviency on the side of our politician, but to one of those
unlucky circumstances which have often put an end to temporary political connexions, by enabling
one party to discover what the other thinks of him.

I draw this curious fact from a manuscript narrative in the handwriting of the learned William
Wotton. When the puritanic party foolishly became jealous of the man who seemed to be working
at root and branch for their purposes, they addressed a letter to Preston, remonstrating with
him for his servile attachment to the minister; on which he confidently returned an answer,
assuring them that he was as fully convinced of the vileness and profligacy of the Duke of
Buckingham's character as any man could be, but that there was no way to come at him but by
the lowest flattery, and that it was necessary for the glory of God that such instruments should
be made use of as could be had; and for that reason, and that alone, he showed that respect
to the reigning favourite, and not for any real honour that he had for him. This letter proved
fatal; some officious hand conveyed it to the duke! When Preston came, as usual, the duke took
his opportunity of asking him what he had ever done to disoblige him, that he should describe
him in such black characters to his own party? Preston, in amazement, denied the fact, and
poured forth professions of honour and gratitude. The duke showed him his own letter. Dr. Preston
instantaneously felt a political apoplexy; the labours of some years were lost in a single
morning. The baffled politician was turned out of Wallingford House, never more to see the
enraged minister! And from that moment Buckingham wholly abandoned the puritans, and cultivated
the friendship of Laud. This happened soon after James the First's death. Wotton adds, "This
story I had from one who was extremely well versed in the secret history of the time."[284]

FOOTNOTE:

  [284] Wotton delivered this memorandum to the literary antiquary,
    Thomas Baker; and Kennet transcribed it in his Manuscript
    Collections. Lansdowne MSS. No. 932-88. The life of Dr. Preston, in
    Chalmers's Biographical Dictionary, may be consulted with advantage.

SIR EDWARD COKE'S EXCEPTIONS AGAINST THE HIGH SHERIFF'S OATH.

A curious fact will show the revolutionary nature of human events, and the necessity of correcting
our ancient statutes, which so frequently hold out punishments and penalties for objects which
have long ceased to be criminal; as well as for persons against whom it would be barbarous
to allow some unrepealed statute to operate.

When a political stratagem was practised by Charles the First to keep certain members out of
the House of Commons, by pricking them down as sheriffs in their different counties, among
them was the celebrated Sir Edward Coke, whom the government had made High Sheriff for Bucks.
It was necessary, perhaps, to be a learned and practised lawyer to discover the means he took,
in the height of his resentment, to elude the insult. This great lawyer, who himself, perhaps,
had often administered the oath to the sheriffs, which had, century after century, been usual
for them to take, to the surprise of all persons drew up Exceptions against the Sheriff's Oath,
declaring that no one could take it. Coke sent his Exceptions to the attorney-general, who,
by an immediate order in council, submitted them to "all the judges of England." Our legal
luminary had condescended only to some ingenious cavilling in three of his exceptions; but
the fourth was of a nature which could not be overcome. All the judges of England assented,
and declared, that there was one part of this ancient oath which was perfectly irreligious,
and must ever hereafter be left out! This article was, "That you shall do all your pain and
diligence to destroy and make to cease all manner of heresies, commonly called Lollaries, within
your bailiwick, &c."[285] The Lollards were the most ancient of protestants, and had practised
Luther's sentiments; it was, in fact, condemning the established religion of the country! An
order was issued from Hampton Court, for the abrogation of this part of the oath; and at present
all high sheriffs owe this obligation to the resentment of Sir Edward Coke, for having been
pricked down as Sheriff of Bucks, to be kept out of parliament! The merit of having the oath
changed, instanter, he was allowed; but he was not excused taking it, after it was accommodated
to the conscientious and lynx-eyed detection of our enraged lawyer.

FOOTNOTE:

  [285] Rushworth's Historical Collections, vol. i. p. 199.

SECRET HISTORY OF CHARLES THE FIRST AND HIS FIRST PARLIAMENTS.

The reign of Charles the First, succeeded by the Commonwealth of England, forms a period unparalleled
by any preceding one in the annals of mankind. It was for the English nation the great result
of all former attempts to ascertain and to secure the just freedom of the subject. The prerogative
of the sovereign and the rights of the people were often imagined to be mutual encroachments,
and were long involved in contradiction, in an age of unsettled opinions and disputed principles.
At length the conflicting parties of monarchy and democracy, in the weakness of their passions,
discovered how much each required the other for its protector. This age offers the finest speculations
in human nature; it opens a protracted scene of glory and of infamy; all that elevates, and
all that humiliates our kind, wrestling together, and expiring in a career of glorious deeds,
of revolting crimes, and even of ludicrous infirmities!

The French Revolution is the commentary of the English; and a commentary at times more important
than the text which it elucidates. It has thrown a freshness over the antiquity of our own
history; and, on returning to it, we seem to possess the feelings, and to be agitated by the
interests, of contemporaries. The circumstances and the persons which so many imagine had passed
away, have been reproduced under our own eyes. In other histories we accept the knowledge of
the characters and the incidents on the evidence of the historian; but here we may take them
from our own conviction, since to extinct names and to past events we can apply the reality
which we ourselves have witnessed.

Charles the First had scarcely ascended the throne ere he discovered that in his new parliament
he was married to a sullen bride: the youthful monarch, with the impatience of a lover, warm
with hope and glory, was ungraciously repulsed even in the first favours! The prediction of
his father remained, like the handwriting on the wall; but, seated on the throne, Hope was
more congenial to youth than Prophecy.

As soon as Charles the First could assemble a parliament, he addressed them with an earnestness,
in which the simplicity of words and thoughts strongly contrasted with the oratorical harangues
of the late monarch. It cannot be alleged against Charles the First, that he preceded the parliament
in the war of words. He courted their affections; and even in this manner of reception, amidst
the dignity of the regal office, studiously showed his exterior respect by the marked solemnity
of their first meeting. As yet uncrowned, on the day on which he first addressed the Lords
and Commons, he wore his crown, and vailed it at the opening, and on the close of his speech;
a circumstance to which the parliament had not been accustomed. Another ceremony gave still
greater solemnity to the meeting; the king would not enter into business till they had united
in prayer. He commanded the doors to be closed, and a bishop to perform the office. The suddenness
of this unexpected command disconcerted the catholic lords, of whom the less rigid knelt, and
the moderate stood: there was one startled papist who did nothing but cross himself![286]

The speech may be found in Rushworth; the friendly tone must be shown here.

   I hope that you do remember that you were pleased to employ me to
   advise my father to break off the treaties (with Spain). I came into
   this business willingly and freely, like a young man, and
   consequently rashly; but it was by your interest--your engagement. I
   pray you to remember, that this being my first action, and begun by
   your advice and entreaty, what a great dishonour it were to you and
   me that it should fail for that assistance you are able to give me!

This effusion excited no sympathy in the house. They voted not a seventh part of the expenditure
necessary to proceed with a war, into which, as a popular measure, they themselves had forced
the king.

At Oxford the king again reminded them that he was engaged in a war "from their desires and
advice." He expresses his disappointment at their insufficient grant, "far short to set forth
the navy now preparing." The speech preserves the same simplicity.

Still no echo of kindness responded in the house. It was, however, asserted, in a vague and
quibbling manner, that "though a former parliament did engage the king in a war, yet, (if things
were managed by a contrary design, and the treasure misemployed) this parliament is not bound
by another parliament:" and they added a cruel mockery, "that the king should help the cause
of the Palatinate with his own money!"--this foolish war, which James and Charles had so long
borne their reproaches for having avoided as hopeless, but which the puritanic party, as well
as others, had continually urged as necessary for the maintenance of the protestant cause in
Europe.

Still no supplies! but protestations of duty, and petitions about grievances, which it had
been difficult to specify. In their "Declaration" they style his Majesty "Our dear and dread
sovereign," and themselves "his poor Commons:" but they concede no point--they offer no aid!
The king was not yet disposed to quarrel, though he had in vain pressed for dispatch of business,
lest the season should be lost for the navy; again reminding them, that "it was the first request
that he ever made unto them!" On the pretence of the plague at Oxford, Charles prorogued parliament,
with a promise to reassemble in the winter.

There were a few whose hearts had still a pulse to vibrate with the distresses of a youthful
monarch, perplexed by a war which they themselves had raised. But others, of a more republican
complexion, rejected "Necessity, as a dangerous counsellor, which would be always furnishing
arguments for supplies. If the king was in danger and necessity, those ought to answer for
it who have put both king and kingdom into this peril: and if the state of things would not
admit a redress of grievances, there cannot be so much necessity for money."

The first parliament abandoned the king!

Charles now had no other means to despatch the army and fleet, in a bad season, but by borrowing
money on privy seals: these were letters, where the loan exacted was as small as the style
was humble. They specified, "that this loan, without inconvenience to any, is only intended
for the service of the public. Such private helps for public services which cannot be deferred,"
the king premises, had been often resorted to; but this "being the first time that we have
required anything in this kind, we require but that sum which few men would deny a friend."
As far as I can discover, the highest sum assessed from great personages was twenty pounds!
The king was willing to suffer any mortification, even that of a charitable solicitation, rather
than endure the obdurate insults of parliament! All donations were received, from ten pounds
to five shillings: this was the mockery of an alms-basket! Yet with contributions and savings
so trivial, and exacted with such a warm appeal to their feelings, was the king to send out
a fleet with ten thousand men--to take Cadiz!

This expedition, like so many similar attempts from the days of Charles the First to those
of the great Lord Chatham, and to our own--concluded in a nullity! Charles, disappointed in
this predatory attempt, in despair called his second parliament--as he says, "in the midst
of his necessities--and to learn from them how he was to frame his course and counsels."

The Commons, as duteously as ever, profess that "No king was ever dearer to his people, and
that they really intend to assist his majesty in such a way as may make him safe at home and
feared abroad"--but it was to be on condition that he would be graciously pleased to accept
"the information and advice of parliament in discovering the causes of the great evils, and
redress their grievances." The king accepted this "as a satisfactory answer;" but Charles comprehended
their drift--"You specially aim at the Duke of Buckingham; what he hath done to change your
minds I wot not." The style of the king now first betrays angered feelings; the secret cause
of the uncomplying conduct of the Commons was hatred of the favourite--but the king saw that
they designed to control the executive government, and he could ascribe their antipathy to
Buckingham but to the capriciousness of popular favour; for not long ago he had heard Buckingham
hailed as "their saviour." In the zeal and firmness of his affections, Charles always considered
that he himself was aimed at in the person of his confidant, his companion, and his minister!

Some of "the bold speakers," as the heads of the opposition are frequently designated in the
manuscript letters, have now risen into notice. Sir John Eliot, Dr. Turner, Sir Dudley Digges,
Mr. Clement Coke, poured themselves forth in a vehement, not to say seditious style, with invectives
more daring than had ever before thundered in the House of Commons! The king now told them--"I
come to show your errors, and, as I may call it, unparliamentary proceedings of parliament."
The lord keeper then assured them, that "when the irregular humours of some particular persons
were settled, the king would hear and answer all just grievances; but the king would have them
also to know that he was equally jealous to the contempt of his royal rights, which his majesty
would not suffer to be violated by any pretended course of parliamentary liberty. The king
considered the parliament as his council; but there was a difference between councilling and
controlling, and between liberty and the abuse of liberty." He finished by noticing their extraordinary
proceedings in their impeachment of Buckingham. The king, resuming his speech, remarkably reproached
the parliament--

   Now that you have all things according to your wishes, and that I am
   so far engaged that you think there is no retreat, now you begin to
   set the dice, and make your own game. But I pray you be not
   deceived; it is not a parliamentary way, nor is it a way to deal with
   a king. Mr. Clement Coke told you, "It was better to be eaten up by a
   foreign enemy than to be destroyed at home!" Indeed, I think it more
   honour for a king to be invaded and almost destroyed by a foreign
   enemy than to be despised by his own subjects.

The king concluded by asserting his privilege to call or to forbid parliaments.

The style of "the bold speakers" appeared at least as early as in April; I trace their spirit
in letters of the times, which furnish facts and expressions that do not appear in our printed
documents.

Among the earliest of our patriots, and finally the great victim of his exertions, was Sir
John Eliot, vice-admiral of Devonshire. He, in a tone which "rolled back to Jove his own bolts,"
and startled even the writer, who was himself biassed to the popular party, "made a resolute,
I doubt whether a timely, speech." He adds Eliot asserted that "They came not thither either
to do what the king should command them, nor to abstain when he forbade them; they came to
continue constant, and to maintain their privileges. They would not give their posterity a
cause to curse them for losing their privileges by restraint, which their forefathers had left
them."[287]

On the 8th of May the impeachment of the duke was opened by Sir Dudley Digges, who compared
the duke to a meteor exhaled out of putrid matter. He was followed by Glanville, Selden, and
others. On this first day the duke sat out-facing his accusers and out-braving their accusations,
which the more highly exasperated the house.[288] On the following day the duke was absent,
when the epilogue to this mighty piece was elaborately delivered by Sir John Eliot, with a
force of declamation and a boldness of personal allusion which have not been surpassed in the
invectives of the modern Junius.

Eliot, after expatiating on the favourite's ambition in procuring and getting into his hands
the greatest offices of strength and power in the kingdom, and the means by which he had obtained
them, drew a picture of "the inward character of the duke's mind." The duke's plurality of
offices reminded him "of a chimerical beast called by the ancients Stellionatus, so blurred,
so spotted, so full of foul lines that they knew not what to make of it! In setting up himself
he hath set upon the kingdom's revenues, the fountain of supply, and the nerves of the land.
He intercepts, consumes, and exhausts the revenues of the crown; and, by emptying the veins
the blood should run in, he hath cast the kingdom into a high consumption." He descends to
criminate the duke's magnificent tastes; he who had something of a congenial nature; for Eliot
was a man of fine literature. "Infinite sums of money, and mass of land exceeding the value
of money, contributions in parliament have been heaped upon him; and how have they been employed?
Upon costly furniture, sumptuous feasting, and magnificent building, the visible evidence of
the express exhausting of the state!"

Eliot eloquently closes--

   Your lordships have an idea of the man, what he is in himself, what
   in his affections! You have seen his power, and some, I fear, have
   felt it. You have known his practice, and have heard the effects.
   Being such, what is he in reference to king and state; how compatible
   or incompatible with either? In reference to the king, he must be
   styled the canker in his treasure; in reference to the state the moth
   of all goodness. I can hardly find him a parallel; but none were so
   like him as Sejanus, who is described by Tacitus, Audax; sui
   obtegens, in alios criminator; juxta adulatio et superbia. Sejanus's
   pride was so excessive, as Tacitus saith, that he neglected all
   councils, mixed his business and service with the prince, seeming to
   confound their actions, and was often styled Imperatoris laborum
   socius. Doth not this man the like? Ask England, Scotland, and
   Ireland--and they will tell you! How lately and how often hath this
   man commixed his actions in discourses with actions of the king's! My
   lords! I have done--you see the man!

The parallel of the duke with Sejanus electrified the house; and, as we shall see, touched
Charles on a convulsive nerve.

The king's conduct on this speech was the beginning of his troubles, and the first of his more
open attempts to crush the popular party. In the House of Lords the king defended the duke,
and informed them, "I have thought fit to take order for the punishing some insolent speeches
lately spoken." I find a piece of secret history enclosed in a letter, with a solemn injunction
that it might be burnt. "The king this morning complained of Sir John Eliot for comparing the
duke to Sejanus, in which he said implicitly he must intend me for Tiberius!" On that day the
prologue and the epilogue orators--Sir Dudley Digges, who had opened the impeachment against
the duke, and Sir John Eliot, who had closed it--were called out of the house by two messengers,
who showed their warrants for committing them to the Tower.[289]

On this memorable day a philosophical politician might have presciently marked the seed-plots
of events, which not many years afterwards were apparent to all men. The passions of kings
are often expatiated on; but, in the present anti-monarchical period, the passions of parliaments
are not imaginable! The democratic party in our constitution, from the meanest of motives,
from their egotism, their vanity, and their audacity, hate kings; they would have an abstract
being, a chimerical sovereign on the throne--like a statue, the mere ornament of the place
it fills,--and insensible, like a statue, to the invectives they would heap on its pedestal!

The commons, with a fierce spirit of reaction for the king's "punishing some insolent speeches,"
at once sent up to the lords for the commitment of the duke![290] But when they learnt the
fate of the patriots, they instantaneously broke up! In the afternoon they assembled in Westminster-hall,
to interchange their private sentiments on the fate of the two imprisoned members, in sadness
and indignation.[291]

The following day the commons met in their own house. When the speaker reminded them of the
usual business, they all cried out, "Sit down! sit down!" They would touch on no business till
they were "righted in their liberties!"[292] An open committee of the whole house was formed,
and no member suffered to quit the house; but either they were at a loss how to commence this
solemn conference, or expressed their indignation by a sullen silence. To soothe and subdue
"the bold speakers" was the unfortunate attempt of the vice-chamberlain, Sir Dudley Carleton,
who had long been one of our foreign ambassadors; and who, having witnessed the despotic governments
on the continent, imagined that there was no deficiency of liberty at home. "I find," said
the vice-chamberlain, "by the great silence in this house, that it is a fit time to be heard,
if you will grant me the patience." Alluding to one of the king's messages, where it was hinted
that, if there was "no correspondency between him and the parliament, he should be forced to
use new counsels," "I pray you consider what these new counsels are, and may be: I fear to
declare those I conceive!" However, Sir Dudley plainly hinted at them, when he went on observing,
that "when monarchs began to know their own strength, and saw the turbulent spirit of their
parliaments, they had overthrown them in all Europe, except here only with us." Our old ambassador
drew an amusing picture of the effects of despotic governments, in that of France--"If you
knew the subjects in foreign countries as well as myself, to see them look, not like our nation,
with store of flesh on their backs, but like so many ghosts and not men, being nothing but
skin and bones, with some thin cover to their nakedness, and wearing only wooden shoes on their
feet, so that they cannot eat meat, or wear good clothes, but they must pay the king for it;
this is a misery beyond expression, and that which we are yet free from!" A long residence
abroad had deprived Sir Dudley Carleton of any sympathy with the high tone of freedom, and
the proud jealousy of their privileges, which, though yet unascertained, undefined, and still
often contested, was breaking forth among the commons of England. It was fated that the celestial
spirit of our national freedom should not descend among us in the form of the mystical dove!

Hume observes on this speech, that "these imprudent suggestions rather gave warning than struck
terror." It was evident that the event, which implied "new counsels," meant what subsequently
was practised--the king governing without a parliament! As for "the ghosts who wore wooden
shoes," to which the house was congratulated that they had not yet been reduced, they would
infer that it was the more necessary to provide against the possibility of such strange apparitions!
Hume truly observes, "The king reaped no further benefit from this attempt than to exasperate
the house still further." Some words, which the duke persisted in asserting had dropped from
Digges, were explained away, Digges declaring that they had not been used by him; and it seems
probable that he was suffered to eat his words. Eliot was made of "sterner stuff;" he abated
not a jot of whatever he had spoken of "that man," as he affected to call Buckingham.

The commons, whatever might be their patriotism, seem at first to have been chiefly moved by
a personal hatred of the favourite;[293] and their real charges against him amounted to little
more than pretences and aggravations. The king, whose personal affections were always strong,
considered his friend innocent; and there was a warm, romantic feature in the character of
the youthful monarch, which scorned to sacrifice his faithful companion to his own interests,
and to immolate the minister to the clamours of the commons. Subsequently, when the king did
this in the memorable case of the guiltless Strafford, it was the only circumstance which weighed
on his mind at the hour of his own sacrifice! Sir Robert Cotton told a friend, on the day on
which the king went down to the house of lords, and committed the two patriots, that "he had
of late been often sent for to the king and duke, and that the king's affection towards him
was very admirable, and no whit lessened. Certainly," he added, "the king will never yield
to the duke's fall, being a young man, resolute, magnanimous, and tenderly and firmly affectionate
where he takes."[294] This authentic character of Charles the First, by that intelligent and
learned man, to whom the nation owes the treasures of its antiquities, is remarkable. Sir Robert
Cotton, though holding no rank at court, and in no respect of the duke's party, was often consulted
by the king, and much in his secrets. How the king valued the judgment of this acute and able
adviser, acting on it in direct contradiction and to the mortification of the favourite, I
shall probably have occasion to show.

The commons did not decline in the subtle spirit with which they had begun; they covertly aimed
at once to subjugate the sovereign, and to expel the minister! A remonstrance was prepared
against the levying of tonnage and poundage, which constituted half of the crown revenues;
and a petition, "equivalent to a command," for removing Buckingham from his majesty's person
and councils.[295] The remonstrance is wrought up with a high spirit of invective against "the
unbridled ambition of the duke," whom they class "among those vipers and pests to their king
and commonwealth, as so expressly styled by your most royal father." They request that "he
would be pleased to remove this person from access to his sacred presence, and that he would
not balance this one man with all these things, and with the affairs of the Christian world."

The king hastily dissolved this second parliament; and when the lords petitioned for its continuance,
he warmly and angrily exclaimed, "Not a moment longer!" It was dissolved in June, 1626.

The patriots abandoned their sovereign to his fate, and retreated home sullen, indignant, and
ready to conspire among themselves for the assumption of their disputed or their defrauded
liberties. They industriously dispersed their remonstrance, and the king replied by a declaration;
but an attack is always more vigorous than a defence. The declaration is spiritless, and evidently
composed under suppressed feelings, which, perhaps, knew not how to shape themselves. The "Remonstrance"
was commanded everywhere to be burnt; and the effect which it produced on the people we shall
shortly witness.

The king was left amidst the most pressing exigencies. At the dissolution of the first parliament
he had been compelled to practise a humiliating economy. Hume has alluded to the numerous wants
of the young monarch; but he certainly was not acquainted with the king's extreme necessities.
His coronation seemed rather a private than a public ceremony. To save the expenses of the
procession from the Tower through the city to Whitehall, that customary pomp was omitted; and
the reason alleged was "to save the charge for more noble undertakings!" that is, for means
to carry on the Spanish war without supplies! But now the most extraordinary changes appeared
at court. The king mortgaged his lands in Cornwall to the aldermen and companies of London.
A rumour spread that the small pension list must be revoked; and the royal distress was carried
so far, that all the tables at court were laid down, and the courtiers put on board-wages!
I have seen a letter which gives an account of "the funeral supper at Whitehall, whereat twenty-three
tables were buried, being from henceforth converted to board-wages;" and there I learn, that
"since this dissolving of house-keeping, his majesty is but slenderly attended." Another writer,
who describes himself to be only a looker-on, regrets, that while the men of the law spent
ten thousand pounds on a single masque, they did not rather make the king rich; and adds, "I
see a rich commonwealth, a rich people, and the crown poor!" This strange poverty of the court
of Charles seems to have escaped the notice of our general historians. Charles was now to victual
his fleet with the savings of the board-wages! for this "surplusage" was taken into account!

The fatal descent on the Isle of Rhé sent home Buckingham discomfited, and spread dismay through
the nation. The best blood had been shed from the wanton bravery of an unskilful and romantic
commander, who, forced to retreat, would march, but not fly, and was the very last man to quit
the ground which he could not occupy. In the eagerness of his hopes, Buckingham had once dropped,
as I learn, that "before Midsummer he should be more honoured and beloved by the commons than
ever was the Earl of Essex:" and thus he rocked his own and his master's imagination in cradling
fancies. This volatile hero, who had felt the capriciousness of popularity, thought that it
was as easily regained as it was easily lost; and that a chivalric adventure would return to
him that favour which at this moment might have been denied to all the wisdom, the policy,
and the arts of an experienced statesman.

The king was now involved in more intricate and desperate measures; and the nation was thrown
into a state of agitation, of which the page of popular history yields but a faint impression.

The spirit of insurrection was stalking forth in the metropolis and in the country. The scenes
which I am about to describe occurred at the close of 1626: an inattentive reader might easily
mistake them for the revolutionary scenes of 1640. It was an unarmed rebellion.

An army and a navy had returned unpaid, and sore with defeat. The town was scoured by mutinous
seamen and soldiers, roving even into the palace of the sovereign. Soldiers without pay form
a society without laws. A band of captains rushed into the duke's apartment as he sat at dinner;
and when reminded by the duke of a late proclamation, forbidding all soldiers coming to court
in troops, on pain of hanging, they replied, that "Whole companies were ready to be hanged
with them! that the king might do as he pleased with their lives; for that their reputation
was lost, and their honour forfeited, for want of their salary to pay their debts." When a
petition was once presented, and it was inquired who was the composer of it, a vast body tremendously
shouted "All! all!" A multitude, composed of seamen, met at Tower-hill, and set a lad on a
scaffold, who, with an "O yes!" proclaimed that King Charles had promised their pay, or the
duke had been on the scaffold himself! These, at least, were grievances more apparent to the
sovereign than those vague ones so perpetually repeated by his unfaithful commons. But what
remained to be done? It was only a choice of difficulties between the disorder and the remedy.
At the moment, the duke got up what he called "The council of the sea;" was punctual at its
first meeting, and appointed three days in a week to sit--but broke his appointment the second
day--they found him always otherwise engaged; and "the council of the sea" turned out to be
one of those shadowy expedients which only lasts while it acts on the imagination. It is said
that thirty thousand pounds would have quieted these disorganised troops; but the exchequer
could not supply so mean a sum. Buckingham in despair, and profuse of life, was planning a
fresh expedition for the siege of Rochelle; a new army was required. He swore, "if there was
money in the kingdom it should be had!"

Now began that series of contrivances, and artifices, and persecutions to levy money. Forced
loans, or pretended free-gifts, kindled a resisting spirit. It was urged by the court party,
that the sums required were, in fact, much less in amount than the usual grants of subsidies;
but the cry, in return for "a subsidy," was always "a Parliament!" Many were heavily fined
for declaring that "they knew no law, besides that of Parliament, to compel men to give away
their own goods." The king ordered that those who would not subscribe to the loans should not
be forced; but it seems there were orders in council to specify those householders' names who
would not subscribe; and it further appears that those who would not pay in purse should in
person. Those who were pressed were sent to the dépôt; but either the soldiers would not receive
these good citizens, or they found easy means to return. Every mode which the government invented
seems to have been easily frustrated, either by the intrepidity of the parties themselves,
or by that general understanding which enabled the people to play into one another's hands.
When the common council had consented that an imposition should be laid, the citizens called
the Guildhall the Yield-all! And whenever they levied a distress, in consequence of a refusal
to pay it, nothing was to be found but "Old ends, such as nobody cared for." Or if a severer
officer seized on commodities, it was in vain to offer pennyworths where no customer was to
be had. A wealthy merchant, who had formerly been a cheesemonger, was summoned to appear before
the privy council, and required to lend the king two hundred pounds, or else to go himself
to the army, and serve it with cheese. It was not supposed that a merchant, so aged and wealthy,
would submit to resume his former mean trade; but the old man, in the spirit of the times,
preferred the hard alternative, and balked the new project of finance, by shipping himself
with his cheese. At Hicks's Hall the duke and the Earl of Dorset sat to receive the loans;
but the duke threatened, and the earl affected to treat with levity, men who came before them
with all the suppressed feelings of popular indignation. The Earl of Dorset asking a fellow
who pleaded inability to lend money, of what trade he was, and being answered "a tailor," said:
"Put down your name for such a sum; one snip will make amends for all!" The tailor quoted scripture
abundantly, and shook the bench with laughter or with rage by his anathemas, till he was put
fast into a messenger's hands. This was one Ball, renowned through the parish of St. Clement's;
and not only a tailor, but a prophet. Twenty years after, tailors and prophets employed messengers
themselves![296]

These are instances drawn from the inferior classes of society; but the same spirit actuated
the country gentlemen: one instance represents many. George Gatesby, of Northamptonshire, being
committed to prison as a loan-recusant, alleged, among other reasons for his non-compliance,
that "he considered that this loan might become a precedent; and that every precedent, he was
told by the lord president, was a flower of the prerogative." The lord president told him that
"he lied!" Gatesby shook his head, observing, "I come not here to contend with your lordship,
but to suffer!" Lord Suffolk then interposing, entreated the lord president would not too far
urge his kinsman, Mr. Gatesby. This country gentleman waived any kindness he might owe to kindred,
declaring, that "he would remain master of his own purse." The prisons were crowded with these
loan-recusants, as well as with those who had sinned in the freedom of their opinions. The
country gentlemen insured their popularity by their committals; and many stout resistors of
the loans were returned in the following parliament against their own wishes.[297] The friends
of these knights and country gentlemen flocked to their prisons; and when they petitioned for
more liberty and air during the summer, it was policy to grant their request. But it was also
policy that they should not reside in their own counties: this relaxation was only granted
to those who, living in the south, consented to sojourn in the north; while the dwellers in
the north were to be lodged in the south!

In the country the disturbed scenes assumed even a more alarming appearance than in London.
They not only would not provide money, but when money was offered by government, the men refused
to serve; a conscription was not then known: and it became a question, long debated in the
privy council, whether those who would not accept press-money should not be tried by martial
law. I preserve in the note a curious piece of secret information.[298] The great novelty and
symptom of the times was the scattering of letters. Sealed letters, addressed to the leading
men of the country, were found hanging on bushes; anonymous letters were dropped in shops and
streets, which gave notice that the day was fast approaching when "Such a work was to be wrought
in England as never was the like, which will be for our good." Addresses multiplied "To all
true-hearted Englishmen!" A groom detected in spreading such seditious papers, and brought
into the inexorable Star-chamber, was fined three thousand pounds! The leniency of the punishment
was rather regretted by two bishops; if it was ever carried into execution, the unhappy man
must have remained a groom who never after crossed a horse!

There is one difficult duty of an historian, which is too often passed over by the party-writer;
it is to pause whenever he feels himself warming with the passions of the multitude, or becoming
the blind apologist of arbitrary power. An historian must transform himself into the characters
which he is representing, and throw himself back into the times which he is opening; possessing
himself of their feelings and tracing their actions, he may then at least hope to discover
truths which may equally interest the honourable men of all parties.

This reflection has occurred from the very difficulty into which I am now brought. Shall we
at once condemn the king for these arbitrary measures? It is, however, very possible that they
were never in his contemplation! Involved in inextricable difficulties, according to his feelings,
he was betrayed by parliament; and he scorned to barter their favour by that vulgar traffic
of treachery--the immolation of the single victim who had long attached his personal affections;
a man at least as much envied as hated! that hard lesson had not yet been inculcated on a British
sovereign, that his bosom must be a blank for all private affection; and had that lesson been
taught, the character of Charles was destitute of all aptitude for it. To reign without a refractory
parliament, and to find among the people themselves subjects more loyal than their representatives,
was an experiment--and a fatal one! Under Charles, the liberty of the subject, when the necessities
of the state pressed on the sovereign, was matter of discussion, disputed as often as assumed;
the divines were proclaiming as rebellious those who refused their contributions to aid the
government;[299] and the law-sages alleged precedents for raising supplies in the manner which
Charles had adopted. Selden, whose learned industry was as vast as the amplitude of his mind,
had to seek for the freedom of the subject in the dust of the records of the Tower--and the
omnipotence of parliaments, if any human assembly may be invested with such supernatural greatness,
had not yet awakened the hoar antiquity of popular liberty.

A general spirit of insurrection, rather than insurrection itself, had suddenly raised some
strange appearances through the kingdom. "The remonstrance" of parliament had unquestionably
quickened the feelings of the people; but yet the lovers of peace and the reverencers of royalty
were not a few; money and men were procured to send out the army and the fleet. More concealed
causes may be suspected to have been at work. Many of the heads of the opposition were pursuing
some secret machinations; about this time I find many mysterious stories--indications of secret
societies--and other evidences of the intrigues of the popular party.

Little matters, sometimes more important than they appear, are suitable to our minute sort
of history. In November, 1626, a rumour spread that the king was to be visited by an ambassador
from "the President of the Society of the Rosycross." He was indeed an heteroclite ambassador,
for he is described "as a youth with never a hair on his face;" in fact, a child who was to
conceal the mysterious personage which he was for a moment to represent. He appointed Sunday
afternoon to come to court, attended by thirteen coaches. He was to proffer to his majesty,
provided the king accepted his advice, three millions to put into his coffers; and by his secret
councils he was to unfold matters of moment and secrecy. A Latin letter was delivered to "David
Ramsey of the clock," to hand over to the king: a copy of it has been preserved in a letter
of the times; but it is so unmeaning, that it could have had no effect on the king, who, however,
declared that he would not admit him to an audience, and that if he could tell where "the President
of the Rosycross" was to be found, unless he made good his offer, he would hang him at the
court-gates. This served the town and country for talk till the appointed Sunday had passed
over, and no ambassador was visible! Some considered this as the plotting of crazy brains,
but others imagined it to be an attempt to speak with the king in private, on matters respecting
the duke.

There was also discovered, by letters received from Rome, "a whole parliament of Jesuits sitting"
in "a fair-hanged vault" in Clerkenwell.[300] Sir John Cooke would have alarmed the parliament,
that on St. Joseph's day these were to have occupied their places; ministers are supposed sometimes
to have conspirators for "the nonce;" Sir Dudley Digges, in the opposition, as usual, would
not believe in any such political necromancers; but such a party were discovered; Cooke would
have insinuated that the French ambassador had persuaded Louis that the divisions between Charles
and his people had been raised by his ingenuity, and was rewarded for the intelligence; this
is not unlikely. After all, the parliament of Jesuits might have been a secret college of the
order; for, among other things seized on, was a considerable library.

When the parliament was sitting, a sealed letter was thrown under the door, with this superscription,
Cursed be the man that finds this letter, and delivers it not to the House of Commons. The
Serjeant-at-Arms delivered it to the Speaker, who would not open it till the house had chosen
a committee of twelve members to inform them whether it was fit to be read. Sir Edward Coke,
after having read two or three lines, stopped, and according to my authority, "durst read no
further, but immediately sealing it, the committee thought fit to send it to the king, who
they say, on reading it through, cast it into the fire, and sent the House of Commons thanks
for their wisdom in not publishing it, and for the discretion of the committee in so far tendering
his honour, as not to read it out, when they once perceived that it touched his majesty."[301]

Others, besides the freedom of speech, introduced another form, "A speech without doors," which
was distributed to the members of the house. It is in all respects a remarkable one, occupying
ten folio pages in the first volume of Rushworth.

Some in office appear to have employed extraordinary proceedings of a similar nature. An intercepted
letter written from the archduchess to the King of Spain, was delivered by Sir H. Martyn at
the council-board on New Year's-day, who found in it some papers relating to the navy. The
duke immediately said he would show it to the king; and, accompanied by several lords, went
into his majesty's closet. The letter was written in French; it advised the Spanish court to
make a sudden war with England, for several reasons; his majesty's want of skill to govern
of himself; the weakness of his council in not daring to acquaint him with the truth; want
of money; disunion of the subjects' hearts from their prince, &c. The king only observed, that
the writer forgot that the archduchess writes to the King of Spain in Spanish, and sends her
letters overland.

I have to add an important fact. I find certain evidence that the heads of the opposition were
busily active in thwarting the measures of government. Dr. Samuel Turner, the member for Shrewsbury,
called on Sir John Cage, and desired to speak to him privately; his errand was to entreat him
to resist the loan, and to use his power with others to obtain this purpose. The following
information comes from Sir John Cage himself. Dr. Turner "being desired to stay, he would not
a minute, but instantly took horse, saying he had more places to go to, and time pressed; that
there was a company of them had divided themselves into all parts, every one having had a quarter
assigned to him, to perform this service for the commonwealth." This was written in November,
1626. This unquestionably amounts to a secret confederacy watching out of parliament as well
as in; and those strange appearances of popular defection exhibited in the country, which I
have described, were in great part the consequences of the machinations and active intrigues
of the popular party.[302]

The king was not disposed to try a third parliament. The favourite, perhaps to regain that
popular favour which his greatness had lost him, is said in private letters to have been twice
on his knees to intercede for a new one. The elections, however, foreboded no good; and a letter-writer
connected with the court, in giving an account of them, prophetically declared, "we are without
question undone!"

The king's speech opens with the spirit which he himself felt, but which he could not communicate:--

   "The times are for action: wherefore, for example's sake, I mean not
   to spend much time in words! If you, which God forbid, should not do
   your duties in contributing what the state at this time needs, I
   must, in discharge of my conscience, use those other means which
   God hath put into my hands, to save that, which the follies of some
   particular men may otherwise hazard to lose." He added, with the
   loftiness of ideal majesty--"Take not this as a threatening, for I
   scorn to threaten any but my equals; but as an admonition from him,
   that, both out of nature and duty, hath most care of your
   preservations and prosperities:" and in a more friendly tone he
   requested them "To remember a thing to the end that we may forget it.
   You may imagine that I come here with a doubt of success, remembering
   the distractions of the last meeting; but I assure you that I shall
   very easily forget and forgive what is past."

A most crowded house now met, composed of the wealthiest men; for a lord, who probably considered
that property was the true balance of power, estimated that they were able to buy the upper-house,
his majesty only excepted! The aristocracy of wealth had already begun to be felt. Some ill
omens of the parliament appeared. Sir Robert Philips moved for a general fast: "we had one
for the plague which it pleased God to deliver us from, and we have now so many plagues of
the commonwealth about his majesty's person, that we have need of such, an act of humiliation."
Sir Edward Coke held it most necessary, "because there are, I fear, some devils that will not
be cast out but by fasting and prayer."

Many of the speeches in "this great council of the kingdom" are as admirable pieces of composition
as exist in the language. Even the court-party were moderate, extenuating rather than pleading
for the late necessities. But the evil spirit of party, however veiled, was walking amidst
them all: a letter-writer represents the natural state of feelings: "Some of the parliament
talk desperately; while others, of as high a course to enforce money if they yield not!" Such
is the perpetual action and reaction of public opinion; when one side will give too little,
the other is sure to desire too much!

The parliament granted subsidies.--Sir John Cooke having brought up the report to the king,
Charles expressed great satisfaction, and declared that he felt now more happy than any of
his predecessors. Inquiring of Sir John by how many voices he had carried it? Cooke replied,
"But by one!"--at which his majesty seemed appalled, and asked how many were against him? Cooke
answered, "None! the unanimity of the House made all but one voice!" at which his majesty wept![303]
If Charles shed tears, or as Cooke himself expresses it, in his report to the House, "was much
affected," the emotion was profound: for on all sudden emergencies Charles displayed an almost
unparalleled command over the exterior violence of his feelings.

The favourite himself sympathised with the tender joy of his royal master; and, before the
king, voluntarily offered himself as a peace-sacrifice. In his speech at the council-table,
he entreats the king that he, who had the honour to be his majesty's favourite, might now give
up that title to them.--A warm genuine feeling probably prompted these words:--

   "To open my heart, please to pardon me a word more; I must confess I
   have long lived in pain, sleep hath given me no rest, favours and
   fortune no content; such have been my secret sorrows, to be thought
   the man of separation, and that divided the king from his people, and
   them from him; but I hope it shall appear they were some mistaken
   minds that would have made me the evil spirit that walketh between a
   good master and a loyal people."[304]

Buckingham added, that for the good of his country he was willing to sacrifice his honours;
and since his plurality of offices had been so strongly excepted against,[305] that he was
content to give up the Master of the Horse to Marquess Hamilton, and the Warden of the Cinque
Ports to the Earl of Carlisle; and was willing that the parliament should appoint another admiral
for all services at sea.

It is as certain as human evidence can authenticate, that on the king's side all was grateful
affection; and that on Buckingham's there was a most earnest desire to win the favours of parliament;
and what are stronger than all human evidence, those unerring principles in human nature itself,
which are the secret springs of the heart, were working in the breasts of the king and his
minister; for neither were tyrannical. The king undoubtedly sighed to meet parliament with
the love which he had at first professed; he declared that "he should now rejoice to meet with
his people often." Charles had no innate tyranny in his constitutional character; and Buckingham
at times was susceptible of misery amidst his greatness, as I have elsewhere shown.[306] It
could not have been imagined that the luckless favourite, on the present occasion, should have
served as a pretext to set again in motion the chaos of evil! Can any candid mind suppose that
the king or the duke meditated the slightest insult on the patriotic party, or would in the
least have disturbed the apparent reconciliation! Yet it so happened! Secretary Cooke, at the
close of his report of the king's acceptance of the subsidies, mentioned that the duke had
fervently beseeched the king to grant the house all their desires! Perhaps the mention of the
duke's name was designed to ingratiate him into their toleration.

Sir John Eliot caught fire at the very name of the duke, and vehemently checked the secretary
for having dared to introduce it; declaring, that "they knew of no other distinction but of
king and subjects. By intermingling a subject's speech with the king's message, he seemed to
derogate from the honour and majesty of a king. Nor would it become any subject to bear himself
in such a fashion, as if no grace ought to descend from the king to the people, nor any loyalty
ascend from the people to the king, but through him only."

This speech was received by many with acclamations; some cried out, "Well spoken, Sir John
Eliot!"[307] It marks the heated state of the political atmosphere, where even the lightest
coruscation of a hated name made it burst into flames!

I have often suspected that Sir John Eliot, by his vehement personality, must have borne a
personal antipathy to Buckingham. I have never been enabled to ascertain the fact; but I find
that he has left in manuscript a collection of satires, or Verses, being chiefly invectives
against the Duke of Buckingham, to whom he bore a bitter and most inveterate enmity. Could
we sometimes discover the motives of those who first head political revolutions, we should
find how greatly personal hatreds have actuated them in deeds which have come down to us in
the form of patriotism, and how often the revolutionary spirit disguises its private passions
by its public conduct.[308]

But the supplies, which had raised tears from the fervent gratitude of Charles, though voted,
were yet withheld. They resolved that grievances and supplies go hand in hand. The commons
entered deeply into constitutional points of the highest magnitude. The curious erudition of
Selden and Coke was combined with the ardour of patriots who merit no inferior celebrity, though
not having consecrated their names by their laborious literature, we only discover them in
the obscure annals of parliament. To our history, composed by writers of different principles,
I refer the reader for the arguments of lawyers, and the spirit of the commons. My secret history
is only its supplement.

The king's prerogative, and the subject's liberty, were points hard to distinguish, and were
established but by contest. Sometimes the king imagined that "the house pressed not upon the
abuses of power, but only upon power itself." Sometimes the commons doubted whether they had
anything of their own to give; while their property and their persons seemed equally insecure.
Despotism seemed to stand on one side, and Faction on the other--Liberty trembled!

The conference of the commons before the lords, on the freedom and person of the subject, was
admirably conducted by Selden and by Coke. When the king's attorney affected to slight the
learned arguments and precedents, pretending to consider them as mutilated out of the records,
and as proving rather against the commons than for them, Sir Edward Coke rose, affirming to
the house, upon his skill in the law, that "it lay not under Mr. Attorney's cap to answer any
one of their arguments." Selden declared that he had written out all the records from the Tower,
the Exchequer, and the King's Bench, with his own hand; and "would engage his head, Mr. Attorney
should not find in all these archives a single precedent omitted." Mr. Littleton said, that
he had examined every one syllabatim, and whoever said they were mutilated spoke false! Of
so ambiguous and delicate a nature was then the liberty of the subject, that it seems they
considered it to depend on precedents!

A startling message, on the 12th of April, was sent by the king for despatch of business. The
house, struck with astonishment, desired to have it repeated. They remained sad and silent.
No one cared to open the debate. A whimsical politician, Sir Francis Nethersole,[309] suddenly
started up, entreating leave to tell his last night's dream. Some laughing at him, he observed,
that "kingdoms had been saved by dreams!" Allowed to proceed, he said, "he saw two good pastures;
a flock of sheep was in the one, and a bell-wether alone in the other; a great ditch was between
them, and a narrow bridge over the ditch."

He was interrupted by the Speaker, who told him that it stood not with the gravity of the house
to listen to dreams; but the house was inclined to hear him out.

"The sheep would sometimes go over to the bell-wether, or the bell-wether to the sheep. Once
both met on the narrow bridge, and the question was who should go back, since both could not
go on without danger. One sheep gave counsel that the sheep on the bridge should lie on their
bellies, and let the bell-wether go over their backs. The application of this dilemma he left
to the house."[310] It must be confessed that the bearing of the point was more ambiguous than
some of the important ones that formed the matters of their debates. Davus sum, non Oedipus!
It is probable that this fantastical politician did not vote with the opposition; for Eliot,
Wentworth, and Coke, protested against the interpretation of dreams in the house!

When the attorney-general moved that the liberties of the subject might be moderated, to reconcile
the differences between themselves and the sovereign, Sir Edward Coke observed, that "the true
mother would never consent to the dividing of her child." On this, Buckingham swore that Coke
intimated that the king, his master, was the prostitute of the state. Coke protested against
the misinterpretation. The dream of Nethersole, and the metaphor of Coke, were alike dangerous
in parliamentary discussion.

In a manuscript letter it is said that the House of Commons sat four days without speaking
or doing anything. On the first of May, Secretary Cooke delivered a message, asking whether
they would rely upon the king's word? This question was followed by a long silence. Several
speeches are reported in the letters of the times, which are not in Rushworth. Sir Nathaniel
Rich observed that, "confident as he was of the royal word, what did any indefinite word ascertain?"
Pym said, "We have his majesty's coronation oath to maintain the laws of England; what need
we then take his word?" He proposed to move "Whether we should take the king's word or no."
This was resisted by Secretary Cooke; "What would they say in foreign parts, if the people
of England would not trust their king?" He desired the house to call Pym to order; on which
Pym replied, "Truly, Mr. Speaker, I am just of the same opinion I was; viz., that the king's
oath was as powerful as his word." Sir John Eliot moved that it be put to the question, "because
they that would have it, do urge us to that point." Sir Edward Coke on this occasion made a
memorable speech, of which the following passage is not given in Rushworth:--

   "We sit now in parliament, and therefore must take his majesty's
   word no otherwise than in a parliamentary way; that is, of a matter
   agreed on by both houses--his majesty sitting on his throne in his
   robes, with his crown on his head, and sceptre in his hand, and in
   full parliament; and his royal assent being entered upon record, in
   perpetuam rei memoriam. This was the royal word of a king in
   parliament, and not a word delivered in a chamber, and out of the
   mouth of a secretary at the second hand; therefore I motion, that the
   House of Commons, more majorum, should draw up a petition, de
   droict, to his majesty; which, being confirmed by both houses, and
   assented unto by his majesty, will be as firm an act as any. Not that
   I distrust the king, but that I cannot take his trust but in a
   parliamentary way."[311]

In this speech of Sir Edward Coke we find the first mention, in the legal style, of the ever-memorable
"Petition of Right," which two days after was finished. The reader must pursue its history
among the writers of opposite parties.

On Tuesday, June 5, a royal message announced that on the 11th the present sessions would close.
This utterly disconcerted the commons. Religious men considered it as a judicial visitation
for the sins of the people; others raged with suppressed feelings; they counted up all the
disasters which had of late occurred, all which were charged to one man: they knew not, at
a moment so urgent, when all their liberties seemed at stake, whether the commons should fly
to the lords, or to the king. Sir John Eliot said, that as they intended to furnish his majesty
with money, it was proper that he should give them time to supply him with counsel: he was
renewing his old attacks on the duke, when he was suddenly interrupted by the Speaker, who,
starting from the chair, declared that he was commanded not to suffer him to proceed; Eliot
sat down in sullen silence. On Wednesday, Sir Edward Coke broke the ice of debate. "That man,"
said he of the duke, "is the grievance of grievances! As for going to the lords," he added,
"that is not via regia; our liberties are impeached--it is our concern!"

On Thursday, the vehement cry of Coke against Buckingham was followed up; as, says a letter-writer,
when one good hound recovers the scent, the rest come in with a full cry.[312] A sudden message
from the king absolutely forbade them to asperse any of his majesty's ministers, otherwise
his majesty would instantly dissolve them.

This fell like a thunderbolt; it struck terror and alarm; and at the instant the House of Commons
was changed into a scene of tragical melancholy! All the opposite passions of human nature--all
the national evils which were one day to burst on the country seemed, on a sudden, concentrated
in this single spot! Some were seen weeping, some were expostulating, and some, in awful prophecy,
were contemplating the future ruin of the kingdom; while others, of more ardent daring, were
reproaching the timid, quieting the terrified, and infusing resolution into the despairing.
Many attempted to speak, but were so strongly affected that their very utterance failed them.
The venerable Coke, overcome by his feelings when he rose to speak, found his learned eloquence
falter on his tongue; he sat down, and tears were seen on his aged cheeks. The name of the
public enemy of the kingdom was repeated, till the Speaker, with tears covering his face, declared
he could no longer witness such a spectacle of woe in the commons of England, and requested
leave of absence for half an hour. The speaker hastened to the king to inform him of the state
of the house. They were preparing a vote against the duke, for being an arch-traitor and arch-enemy
to king and kingdom, and were busied on their "Remonstrance," when the Speaker, on his return,
after an absence of two hours, delivered his majesty's message, that they should adjourn till
the next day.

This was an awful interval of time; many trembled for the issue of the next morning: one letter-writer
calls it "that black and doleful Thursday!" and another, writing before the house met, observes,
"What we shall expect this morning, God of heaven knows; we shall meet timely."[313]

Charles probably had been greatly affected by the report of the Speaker, on the extraordinary
state into which the whole house had been thrown; for on Friday the royal message imported
that the king had never any intention of "barring them from their right, but only to avoid
scandal, that his ministers should not be accused for their counsel to him; and still he hoped
that all Christendom might notice a sweet parting between him and his people." This message
quieted the house, but did not suspend their preparations for a "Remonstrance," which they
had begun on the day they were threatened with a dissolution.

On Saturday, while they were still occupied on the "Remonstrance," unexpectedly, at four o'clock,
the king came to parliament, and the commons were called up. Charles spontaneously came to
reconcile himself to parliament. The king now gave his second answer to the "Petition of Right."
He said--"My maxim is, that the people's liberties strengthen the king's prerogative; and the
king's prerogative is to defend the people's liberties. Read your petition, and you shall have
an answer that I am sure will please you."[314] They desired to have the ancient form of their
ancestors, "Soit droit fait come il est desyré," and not as the king had before given it, with
any observation on it. Charles now granted this; declaring that his second answer to the petition
in nowise differed from his first; "but you now see how ready I have shown myself to satisfy
your demands; I have done my part; wherefore, if this parliament have not a happy conclusion,
the sin is yours,--I am free from it!"

Popular gratitude is at least as vociferous as it is sudden. Both houses returned the king
acclamations of joy; everyone seemed to exult at the happy change which a few days had effected
in the fate of the kingdom. Everywhere the bells rung, bonfires were kindled, an universal
holiday was kept through the town, and spread to the country: but an ominous circumstance has
been registered by a letter-writer; the common people, who had caught the contagious happiness,
imagined that all this public joy was occasioned by the king's consenting to commit the duke
to the Tower!

Charles has been censured, even by Hume, for his "evasions and delays" in granting his assent
to the "Petition of Right;" but now, either the parliament had conquered the royal unwillingness,
or the king was zealously inclined on reconciliation. Yet the joy of the commons did not outlast
the bonfires in the streets; they resumed their debates as if they had never before touched
on the subjects: they did not account for the feelings of the man whom they addressed as the
sovereign. They sent up a "Remonstrance" against the duke,[315] and introduced his mother into
it, as a patroness of popery. Charles declared, that after having granted the famous "Petition,"
he had not expected such a return as this "Remonstrance." "How acceptable it is," he afterwards
said, "every man may judge; no wise man can justify it." After the reading of the Remonstrance,
the duke fell on his knees, desiring to answer for himself; but Charles no way relaxed in showing
his personal favour.[316]

The duke was often charged with actions and with expressions of which, unquestionably, he was
not always guilty; and we can more fairly decide on some points relating to Charles and the
favourite, for we have a clearer notion of them than his contemporaries. The active spirits
in the commons were resolved to hunt down the game to the death: for they now struck at, as
the king calls it, "one of the chief maintenances of my crown," in tonnage and poundage, the
levying of which, they now declared, was a violation of the liberties of the people. This subject
again involved legal discussions, and another "Remonstrance." They were in the act of reading
it, when the king suddenly came down to the house, sent for the Speaker, and prorogued the
parliament. "I am forced to end this session," said Charles, "some few hours before I meant,
being not willing to receive any more Remonstrances, to which I must give a harsh answer."
There was at least as much of sorrow as of anger in this closing speech.

Buckingham once more was to offer his life for the honour of his master--and to court popularity!
It is well known with what exterior fortitude Charles received the news of the duke's assassination;
this imperturbable majesty of his mind--insensibility it was not--never deserted him on many
similar occasions. There was no indecision--no feebleness in his conduct; and that extraordinary
event was not suffered to delay the expedition. The king's personal industry astonished all
the men in office. One writes that the king had done more in six weeks than in the duke's time
had been done in six months. The death of Buckingham caused no change; the king left every
man to his own charge, but took the general direction into his own hands.[317] In private,
Charles deeply mourned the loss of Buckingham; he gave no encouragement to his enemies: the
king called him "his martyr," and declared "the world was greatly mistaken in him; for it was
thought that the favourite had ruled his majesty, but it was far otherwise; for that the duke
had been to him a faithful and an obedient servant."[318] Such were the feelings and ideas
of the unfortunate Charles the First, which it is necessary to become acquainted with to judge
of; few have possessed the leisure or the disposition to perform this historical duty, involved
as it is in the history of our passions. If ever the man shall be viewed, as well as the monarch,
the private history of Charles the First will form one of the most pathetic of biographies.[319]

All the foreign expeditions of Charles the First were alike disastrous: the vast genius of
Richelieu, at its meridian, had paled our ineffectual star! The dreadful surrender of Rochelle
had sent back our army and navy baffled and disgraced; and Buckingham had timely perished,
to save one more reproach, one more political crime, attached to his name. Such failures did
not improve the temper of the times; but the most brilliant victory would not have changed
the fate of Charles, nor allayed the fiery spirits in the commons, who, as Charles said, "not
satisfied in hearing complainers, had erected themselves into inquisitors after complaints."

Parliament met. The king's speech was conciliatory. He acknowledged that the exaction of the
duties of the customs was not a right which he derived from his hereditary prerogative, but
one which he enjoyed as the gift of his people. These duties as yet had not indeed been formally
confirmed by parliament, but they had never been refused to the sovereign. The king closed
with a fervent ejaculation that the session, begun with confidence, might end with a mutual
good understanding.[320]

The shade of Buckingham was no longer cast between Charles the First and the commons. And yet
we find that "their dread and dear sovereign" was not allowed any repose on the throne.

A new demon of national discord, Religion, in a metaphysical garb, reared its distracted head.
This evil spirit had been raised by the conduct of the court divines, whose political sermons,
with their attempts to return to the more solemn ceremonies of the Romish church, alarmed some
tender consciences; it served as a masked battery for the patriotic party to change their ground
at will, without slackening their fire. When the king urged for the duties of his customs,
he found that he was addressing a committee sitting for religion. Sir John Eliot threw out
a singular expression. Alluding to some of the bishops, whom he called "masters of ceremonies,"
he confessed that some ceremonies were commendable, such as "that we should stand up at the
repetition of the creed, to testify the resolution of our hearts to defend the religion we
profess, and in some churches they did not only stand upright, but with their swords drawn."
His speech was a spark that fell into a well-laid train; scarcely can we conceive the enthusiastic
temper of the House of Commons at that moment, when, after some debate, they entered into a
vow to preserve "the articles of religion established by parliament in the thirteenth year
of our late Queen Elizabeth!" and this vow was immediately followed up by a petition to the
king for a fast for the increasing miseries of the reformed churches abroad. Parliaments are
liable to have their passions! Some of these enthusiasts were struck by a panic, not perhaps
warranted by the danger, of "Jesuits and Armenians." The king answered them in good-humour;
observing, however, on the state of the reformed abroad; "that fighting would do them more
good than fasting." He granted them their fast, but they would now grant no return; for now
they presented "a Declaration" to the king, that tonnage and poundage must give precedency
to religion! The king's answer still betrays no ill temper. He confessed that he did not think
that "religion was in so much danger as they affirmed." He reminds them of tonnage and poundage;
"I do not so much desire it out of greediness of the thing, as out of a desire to put an end
to those questions that arise between me and some of my subjects."

Never had the king been more moderate in his claims, or more tender in his style; and never
had the commons been more fierce, and never, in truth, so utterly inexorable! Often kings are
tyrannical, and sometimes are parliaments! A body corporate, with the infection of passion,
may perform acts of injustice equally with the individual who abuses the power with which he
is invested. It was insisted that Charles should give up the receivers of the customs, who
were denounced as capital enemies to the king and kingdom; while those who submitted to the
duties were declared guilty as accessories. When Sir John Eliot was pouring forth invectives
against some courtiers--however they may have merited the blast of his eloquence--he was sometimes
interrupted and sometimes cheered, for the stinging personalities. The timid Speaker, refusing
to put the question, suffered a severe reprimand from Selden: "If you will not put it, we must
sit still, and thus we shall never be able to do anything!" The house adjourned in great heat;
the dark prognostic of their next meeting, which Sir Symonds D'Ewes has remarked in his Diary
as "the most gloomy, sad, and dismal day for England that happened for five hundred years!"

On this fatal day,[321] the Speaker still refusing to put the question, and announcing the
king's command for an adjournment, Sir John Eliot stood up! The Speaker attempted to leave
the chair, but two members, who had placed themselves on each side, forcibly kept him down--Eliot,
who had prepared "a short declaration," flung down a paper on the floor, crying out that it
might be read! His party vociferated for the reading--others that it should not. A sudden tumult
broke out; Coriton, a fervent patriot, struck another member, and many laid their hands on
their swords.[322] "Shall we," said one, "be sent home as we were last sessions, turned off
like scattered sheep?" The weeping, trembling Speaker, still persisting in what he held to
be his duty, was dragged to and fro by opposite parties; but neither he nor the clerk would
read the paper, though the Speaker was bitterly reproached by his kinsman, Sir Peter Hayman,
"as the disgrace of his country, and a blot to a noble family." Eliot, finding the house so
strongly divided, undauntedly snatching up the paper, said, "I shall then express that by my
tongue which this paper should have done." Denzil Holles assumed the character of Speaker,
putting the question: it was returned by the acclamations of the party. The doors were locked
and the keys laid on the table. The king sent for the serjeant and mace, but the messenger
could obtain no admittance--the usher of the black rod met no more regard. The king then ordered
out his guard--in the meanwhile the protest was completed. The door was flung open, the rush
of the members was so impetuous that the crowd carried away among them the serjeant and the
usher in the confusion and riot. Many of the members were struck by horror amidst this conflict,
it was a sad image of the future! Several of the patriots were committed to the Tower. The
king on dissolving this parliament, which was the last till the memorable "Long Parliament,"
gives us, at least, his idea of it:--"It is far from me to judge all the House alike guilty,
for there are there as dutiful subjects as any in the world; it being but some few vipers among
them that did cast this mist of undutifulness over most of their eyes."[323]

Thus have I traced, step by step, the secret history of Charles the First and his early Parliaments.
I have entered into their feelings, while I have supplied new facts, to make everything as
present and as true as my faithful diligence could repeat the tale. It was necessary that I
should sometimes judge of the first race of our patriots as some of their contemporaries did;
but it was impossible to avoid correcting these notions by the more enlarged views of their
posterity. This is the privilege of an historian and the philosophy of his art. There is no
apology for the king, nor any declamation for the subject. Were we only to decide by the final
results of this great conflict, of which what we have here narrated is but the faint beginning,
we should confess that Sir John Eliot and his party were the first fathers of our political
existence; and we should not withhold from them the inexpressible gratitude of a nation's freedom!
But human infirmity mortifies us in the noblest pursuits of man; and we must be taught this
penitential and chastising wisdom. The story of our patriots is involved; Charles appears to
have been lowering those high notions of his prerogative, which were not peculiar to him, and
was throwing himself on the bosom of his people. The severe and unrelenting conduct of Sir
John Eliot, his prompt eloquence and bold invective, well fitted him for the leader of a party.
He was the lodestone, drawing together the looser particles of iron. Never sparing, in the
monarch, the errors of the man, never relinquishing his royal prey, which he had fastened on,
Eliot, with Dr. Turner and some others, contributed to make Charles disgusted with all parliaments.
Without any dangerous concessions, there was more than one moment when they might have reconciled
the sovereign to themselves, and not have driven him to the fatal resource of attempting to
reign without a parliament![324]

FOOTNOTES:

  [286] From manuscript letters of the times.

  [287] Sloane MSS. 4177. Letter 317.

  [288] The king had said in his speech to parliament, "I must let you
    know I will not allow any of my servants to be questioned among you,
    much less such as are of eminent place, and near unto me;" hence the
    security of Buckingham, who showed the most perfect contempt for the
    speakers who thus violently attacked him.

  [289] Our printed historical documents, Kennett, Frankland, &c., are
    confused in their details, and facts seem misplaced for want of
    dates. They all equally copy Rushworth, the only source of our
    history of this period. Even Hume is involved in the obscurity. The
    king's speech was on the eleventh of May. As Rushworth has not
    furnished dates, it would seem that the two orators had been sent to
    the Tower before the king's speech to the lords.

  [290] The king attended the House of Lords to explain his intentions
    verbally, taking the minister with him, though under impeachment.
    "Touching the matters against him," said the king, "I myself can be
    a witness to clear him in every one of them."

  [291] They decided on stopping all business till satisfaction was
    given them, which ended in the release of Digges and Eliot in a few
    days.

  [292] Frankland, an inveterate royalist, in copying Rushworth, inserts
    "their pretended liberties;" exactly the style of catholic writers
    when they mention protestantism by "la religion prétendue
    reformée." All party writers use the same style!

  [293] The strength of the popular hatred may be seen in the articles
    on Buckingham and Felton in vol. ii. Satires in manuscript abounded,
    and by their broad-spoken pungency rendered the duke a perfect bête
    noir to the people.

  [294] Manuscript letter.

  [295] Rushworth, i. 400. Hume, vi. 221, who enters widely into the
    views and feelings of Charles.

  [296] The Radicals of that day differed from ours in the means,
    though not in the end. They at least referred to their Bibles, and
    rather more than was required; but superstition is as mad as
    atheism! Many of the puritans confused their brains with the study
    of the Revelations; believing Prince Henry to be prefigured in the
    Apocalypse, some prophesied that he should overthrow "the beast."
    Ball, our tailor, was this very prophet; and was so honest as to
    believe in his own prophecy. Osborn tells, that Ball put out money
    on adventure; i.e., to receive it back double or treble, when
    King James should be elected pope! So that though he had no money
    for a loan, he had to spare for a prophecy.

    This Ball has been confounded with a more ancient radical, Ball, a
    priest, and a principal mover in Wat Tyler's insurrection. Our Ball
    must have been very notorious, for Jonson has noticed his "admired
    discourses." Mr. Gifford, without any knowledge of my account of
    this tailor-prophet, by his active sagacity has rightly indicated
    him.--See Jonson's Works, vol. v. p. 241.

  [297] It is curious to observe that the Westminster elections, in
    the fourth year of Charles's reign, were exactly of the same
    turbulent character as those which we witness in our days. The duke
    had counted by his interest to bring in Sir Robert Pye. The contest
    was severe, but accompanied by some of those ludicrous
    electioneering scenes which still amuse the mob. Whenever Sir Robert
    Pye's party cried--"A Pye! a Pye! a Pye!" the adverse party would
    cry--"A pudding! a pudding! a pudding!" and others--"A lie! a lie! a
    lie!" This Westminster election of two hundred years ago ended as we
    have seen some others; they rejected all who had urged the payment
    of the loans; and, passing by such men as Sir Robert Cotton, and
    their last representative, they fixed on a brewer and a grocer for
    the two members for Westminster.

  [298] Extract from a manuscript letter:--"On Friday last I hear, but
    as a secret, that it was debated at the council-table whether our
    Essex men, who refused to take press-money, should not be punished
    by martial-law, and hanged up on the next tree to their dwellings,
    for an example of terror to others. My lord keeper, who had been
    long silent, when, in conclusion, it came to his course to speak,
    told the lords, that as far as he understood the law, none were
    liable to martial law but martial men. If these had taken
    press-money, and afterwards run from their colours, they might then
    be punished in that manner; but yet they were no soldiers, and
    refused to be. Secondly, he thought a subsidy, new by law, could not
    be pressed against his will for a foreign service; it being
    supposed, in law, the service of his purse excused that of his
    person, unless his own country were in danger; and he appealed to my
    lord treasurer, and my lord president, whether it was not so, who
    both assented it was so, though some of them faintly, as unwilling
    to have been urged to such an answer. So it is thought that
    proposition is dashed; and it will be tried what may be done in the
    Star-chamber against these refractories."

  [299] A member of the house, in James the First's time, called this
    race of divines "Spaniels to the court and wolves to the people."
    Dr. Mainwaring, Dr. Sibthorpe, and Dean Bargrave were seeking for
    ancient precedents to maintain absolute monarchy, and to inculcate
    passive obedience. Bargrave had this passage in his sermon: "It was
    the speech of a man renowned for wisdom in our age, that if he were
    commanded to put forth to sea in a ship that had neither mast nor
    tackling, he would do it:" and being asked what wisdom that were,
    replied, "The wisdom must be in him that hath power to command, not
    in him that conscience binds to obey." Sibthorpe, after he published
    his sermon, immediately had his house burnt down. Dr. Mainwaring,
    says a manuscript letter-writer, "sent the other day to a friend of
    mine, to help him to all the ancient precedents he could find, to
    strengthen his opinion (for absolute monarchy), who answered him he
    could help him in nothing but only to hang him, and that if he lived
    till a parliament, or, &c., he should be sure of a halter."
    Mainwaring afterwards submitted to parliament; but after the
    dissolution got a free pardon. The panic of popery was a great evil.
    The divines, under Laud, appeared to approach to Catholicism; but it
    was probably only a project of reconciliation between the two
    churches, which Elizabeth, James, and Charles equally wished. Mr.
    Cosins, a letter-writer, is censured for "superstition" in this
    bitter style: "Mr. Cosins has impudently made three editions of his
    prayer-book, and one which he gives away in private, different from
    the published ones. An audacious fellow, whom my Lord of Durham
    greatly admireth. I doubt if he be a sound protestant: he was so
    blind at even-song on Candlemas-day, that he could not see to read
    prayers in the minster with less than three hundred and forty
    candles, whereof sixty he caused to be placed about the high altar;
    besides he caused the picture of our Saviour, supported by two
    angels, to be set in the choir. The committee is very hot against
    him, and no matter if they trounce him." This was Cosins, who
    survived the revolution, and returning with Charles the Second, was
    raised to the see of Durham: the charitable institutions he has left
    are most munificent.

  [300] Rushworth's Collections, i. 514.

  [301] I deliver this fact as I find it in a private letter; but it
    is noticed in the Journals of the House of Commons, 23 Junii, 4º.
    Caroli Regis. "Sir Edward Coke reporteth that they find that,
    enclosed in the letter, to be unfit for any subject's ear to hear.
    Read but one line and a half of it, and could not endure to read
    more of it. It was ordered to be sealed and delivered into the
    king's hands by eight members, and to acquaint his majesty with the
    place and time of finding it; particularly that upon the reading of
    one line and a half at most, they would read no more, but sealed it
    up, and brought it to the House."

  [302] I have since discovered, by a manuscript letter, that this
    Dr. Turner was held in contempt by the king; that he was ridiculed
    at court, which he haunted, for his want of veracity; in a word,
    that he was a disappointed courtier!

  [303] This circumstance is mentioned in a manuscript letter; what
    Cooke declared to the House is in Rushworth, vol. i. p. 525.

  [304] I refer the critical student of our history to the duke's
    speech at the council-table as it appears in Rushworth, i. 525: but
    what I add respecting his personal sacrifices is from manuscript
    letters. Sloane MSS. 4177. Letter 490, &c.

  [305] On this subject, see note to the brief article on Buckingham
    in vol. i.

  [306] Curiosities of Literature, First Series, vol. iii. p. 438, ed.
    1817; vol. v. p. 277, ed. 1823; vol. iii. p. 429, ed. 1824; vol. iv.
    p. 148 ed. 1834; p. 301, ed. 1840, or vol. ii. p. 357, of this
    edition.

  [307] I find this speech, and an account of its reception, in
    manuscript letters; the fragment in Rushworth contains no part of
    it. I. 526. Sloane MSS. 4177. Letter 490, &c.

  [308] Modern history would afford more instances than perhaps some
    of us suspect. I cannot pass over an illustration of my principle,
    which I shall take from two very notorious politicians--Wat Tyler
    and Sir William Walworth!

    Wat, when in servitude, had been beaten by his master, Richard
    Lyons, a great merchant of wines, and a sheriff of London. This
    chastisement, working on an evil disposition, appears never to have
    been forgiven; and when this Radical assumed his short-lived
    dominion, he had his old master beheaded, and his head carried
    before him on the point of a spear! So Grafton tells us, to the
    eternal obloquy of this arch-jacobin, who "was a crafty fellow, and
    of an excellent wit, but wanting grace." I would not sully the
    patriotic blow which ended the rebellion with the rebel; yet there
    are secrets in history! Sir William Walworth, "the ever famous mayor
    of London," as Stowe designates him, has left the immortality of his
    name to one of our suburbs; but having discovered in Stowe's
    "Survey," that Walworth was the landlord of the stews on the
    Bank-side, which he farmed out to the Dutch vrows, and which Wat
    had pulled down, I am inclined to suspect that private feeling first
    knocked down the saucy ribald, and then thrust him through and
    through with his dagger; and that there was as much of personal
    vengeance as patriotism, which crushed the demolisher of so much
    valuable property!

  [309] I have formed my idea of Sir Francis Nethersole from some
    strange incidents in his political conduct, which I have read in
    some contemporary letters. He was, however, a man of some eminence,
    had been Orator for the University of Cambridge, agent for James I.
    with the Princes of the Union in Germany, and also Secretary to the
    Queen of Bohemia. He founded and endowed a free-school at Polesworth
    in Warwickshire.

  [310] Manuscript letter.

  [311] These speeches are entirely drawn from those manuscript letters
    to which I have frequently referred. Coke's may be substantially
    found in Rushworth, but without a single expression as here given.

  [312] The popular opinion is well expressed in the following lines
    preserved in Sloane MS. 826:--

      When only one doth rule and guide the ship,
        Who neither card nor compass knew before,
      The master pilot and the rest asleep,
        The stately ship is split upon the shore;
      But they awaking start up, stare, and cry,
      "Who did this fault?"--"Not I,"--"Nor I,"--"Nor I."
          So fares it with a great and wealthy state
          Not govern'd by the master, but his mate.

  [313] This last letter is printed in Rushworth, vol. i. p. 609.

  [314] The king's answer is in Rushworth, vol. i. p. 613.

  [315] This eloquent state paper is in Rushworth, vol. i. p. 619.

  [316] This interview is taken from manuscript letters.

  [317] Manuscript Letters: Lord Dorset to the Earl of Carlisle.--Sloane
    MSS. 4178. Letter 519.

  [318] Manuscript Letter.

  [319] I have given (vol. ii. p. 336) the "Secret History of Charles
    the First and his Queen," where I have traced the firmness and
    independence of his character. In another article will be found as
    much of the "Secret History of the Duke of Buckingham" as I have
    been enabled to acquire.

  [320] "To conclude," said the king; "let us not be jealous one of
    the other's actions."

  [321] Monday, 2nd of March, 1629.

  [322] It was imagined out of doors that swords had been drawn; for a
    Welsh page running in great haste, when he heard the noise, to the
    door, cried out, "I pray you let hur in! let hur in! to give hur
    master his sword!"--Manuscript Letter.

  [323] At the time many undoubtedly considered that it was a mere
    faction in the house. Sir Symonds D'Ewes was certainly no
    politician--but, unquestionably, his ideas were not peculiar to
    himself. Of the last third parliament he delivers this opinion in
    his Diary: "I cannot deem but the greater part of the house were
    morally honest men; but these were the least guilty of the fatal
    breach, being only misled by some other Machiavelian politics, who
    seemed zealous for the liberty of the commonwealth, and by that
    means, in the moving of their outward freedom, drew the votes of
    those good men to their side."

  [324] Since the publication of the present article, I have composed
    my "Commentaries on the Life and Reign of Charles the First," in
    five volumes.

482 THE RUMP.

Text and commentary! The French Revolution abounds with wonderful "explanatory notes" on the
English. It has cleared up many obscure passages--and in the political history of Man, both
pages must be read together.

The opprobrious and ludicrous nickname of "the Rump," stigmatised a faction which played the
same part in the English Revolution as the "Montagne" of the Jacobins did in the French. It
has been imagined that our English Jacobins were impelled by a principle different from that
of their modern rivals; but the madness of avowed atheism, and the frenzy of hypocritical sanctity,
in the circle of crimes meet at the same point. Their history forms one of those useful parallels
where, with truth as unerring as mathematical demonstration, we discover the identity of human
nature. Similarity of situation, and certain principles, producing similar personages and similar
events, finally settle in the same results. The Rump, as long as human nature exists, can be
nothing but the Rump, however it may be thrown uppermost.

The origin of this political by-name has often been inquired into; and it is somewhat curious,
that, though all parties consent to reprobate it, each assigns for it a different allusion.
In the history of political factions there is always a mixture of the ludicrous with the tragic;
but, except their modern brothers, no faction like the present ever excited such a combination
of extreme contempt and extreme horror.

Among the rival parties in 1659, the loyalists and the presbyterians acted as we may suppose
the Tories and the Whigs would in the same predicament; a secret reconciliation had taken place,
to bury in oblivion their former jealousies, that they might unite to rid themselves from that
tyranny of tyrannies, a hydra-headed government; or, as Hume observes, that "all efforts should
be used for the overthrow of the Rump; so they called the parliament, in allusion to that part
of the animal body." The sarcasm of the allusion seemed obvious to our polished historian;
yet, looking more narrowly for its origin, we shall find how indistinct were the notions of
this nickname among those who lived nearer to the times. Evelyn says that "the Rump parliament
was so called as containing some few rotten members of the other." Roger Coke describes it
thus: "You must now be content with a piece of the Commons called 'the Rump.'" And Carte calls
the Rump, "the carcass of a house," and seems not precisely aware of the contemptuous allusion.
But how do "rotten members" and "a carcass" agree with the notion of "a Rump?" Recently the
editor of the Life of Colonel Hutchinson has conveyed a novel origin. "The number of the members
of the Long Parliament having been by seclusion, death, &c., very much reduced,"--a remarkable
&c. this! by which our editor seems adroitly to throw a veil over the forcible transportation
by the Rumpers of two hundred members at one swoop,--"the remainder was compared to the rump
of a fowl which was left, all the rest being eaten." Our editor even considers this to be "a
coarse emblem;" yet "the rump of a fowl" could hardly offend even a lady's delicacy! Our editor,
probably, was somewhat anxious not to degrade too lowly the anti-monarchical party, designated
by this opprobrious term. Perhaps it is pardonable in Mrs. Macaulay, an historical lady, and
a "Rumper," for she calls the "Levellers" a "brave and virtuous party," to have passed over
in her history any mention of the offensive term at all, as well as the ridiculous catastrophe
which they underwent in the political revolution, which, however, we must beg leave not to pass by.

This party-coinage has been ascribed to Clement Walker, their bitter antagonist; who, having
sacrificed no inconsiderable fortune to the cause of what he considered constitutional liberty,
was one of the violent ejected members of the Long Parliament, and perished in prison, a victim
to honest, unbending principles. His "History of Independency" is a rich legacy bequeathed
to posterity, of all their great misdoings, and their petty villanies, and, above all, of their
secret history. One likes to know of what blocks the idols of the people are sometimes carved out.

Clement Walker notices "the votes and acts of this fag end; this RUMP of a parliament, with
corrupt maggots in it."[325] This hideous, but descriptive image of "The Rump" had, however,
got forward before, for the collector of "the Rump Songs"[326] tells us, "If you ask who named
it Rump, know 'twas so styled in an honest sheet of prayer, called 'The Bloody Rump,' written
before the trial of our late sovereign; but the word obtained not universal notice, till it
flew from the mouth of Major-General Brown, at a public assembly in the days of Richard Cromwell."
Thus it happens that a stinging nickname has been frequently applied to render a faction eternally
odious; and the chance expression of a wit, when adopted on some public occasion, circulates
among a whole people. The present nickname originated in derision on the expulsion of the majority
of the Long Parliament by the usurping minority. It probably slept; for who would have stirred
it through the Protectorate? and finally awakened at Richard's restored, but fleeting "Rump,"
to witness its own ridiculous extinction.

Our Rump passed through three stages in its political progress. Preparatory to the trial of
the sovereign, the anti-monarchical party constituted the minority in "the Long Parliament:"
the very name by which this parliament is recognised seemed a grievance to an impatient people,
vacillating with chimerical projects of government, and now accustomed, from a wild indefinite
notion of political equality, to pull down all existing institutions. Such was the temper of
the times, that an act of the most violent injustice, openly performed, served only as the
jest of the day, a jest which has passed into history. The forcible expulsion of two hundred
of their brother members, by those who afterwards were saluted as "The Rump," was called "Pride's
Purge," from the activity of a colonel of that name, a military adventurer, who was only the
blind and brutal instrument of his party; for when he stood at the door of the Commons, holding
a paper with the names of the members, he did not personally know one! And his "Purge" might
have operated a quite opposite effect, administered by his own unskilful hand, had not Lord
Grey of Groby, and the door-keeper,--worthy dispersers of the British senate!--pointed out
the obnoxious members, on whom our colonel laid his hand, and sent off by his men to be detained,
if a bold member, or to be deterred from sitting in the house, if a frightened one. This colonel
had been a drayman; and the contemptible knot of the Commons, reduced to fifty or sixty confederates,
which assembled after his "Purge," were called "Colonel Pride's Dray-Horses."

It was this Rump which voted the death of the sovereign, and abolished the regal office, and
the House of Peers--as "unnecessary, burdensome, and dangerous!" Every office in parliament
seemed "dangerous," but that of the "Custodes libertatis Angliæ," the keepers of the liberties
of England! or rather "the gaolers!" "The legislative half-quarter of the House of Commons!"
indignantly exclaims Clement Walker--the "Montagne" of the French revolutionists!

The "Red-coats" as the military were nicknamed, soon taught their masters, "the Rumpers," silence
and obedience: the latter having raised one colossal man for their own purpose, were annihilated
by him at a single blow. Cromwell, five years after, turned them out of their house, and put
the keys into his pocket. Their last public appearance was in the fleeting days of Richard
Cromwell, when the comi-tragedy of "the Rump" concluded by a catastrophe as ludicrous as that
of Tom Thumb's tragedy!

How such a faction used their instruments to gather in the common spoil, and how their instruments
at length converted the hands which held them into instruments themselves, appears in their
history. When "the Long Parliament" opposed the designs of Cromwell and Ireton, these chiefs
cried up "the liberty of the people," and denied "the authority of parliament:" but when they
had effectuated their famous "purge," and formed a House of Commons of themselves, they abolished
the House of Lords, crying up the supreme authority of the House of Commons, and crying down
the liberty of the people. Such is the history of political factions, as well as of statesmen!
Charles the Fifth alternately made use of the Pope's authority to subdue the rising spirit
of the Protestants of Germany, or raised an army of Protestants to imprison the Pope! who branded
his German allies by the novel and odious name of Lutherans. A chain of similar facts may be
framed out of modern history.

The "Rump," as they were called by every one but their own party, became a whetstone for the
wits to sharpen themselves on; and we have two large collections of "Rump Songs," curious chronicles
of popular feeling![327] Without this evidence we should not have been so well informed respecting
the phases of this portentous phenomenon. "The Rump" was celebrated in verse, till at length
it became "the Rump of a Rump of a Rump!" as Foulis traces them to their dwindled and grotesque
appearance. It is pourtrayed by a wit of the times--

  The Rump's an old story, if well understood,
  'Tis a thing dress'd up in a parliament's hood,
  And like it--but the tail stands where the head shou'd!
  'Twould make a man scratch where it does not itch!
  They say 'tis good luck when a body rises
  With the rump upwards; but he that advises
  To live in that posture, is none of the wisest.

Cromwell's hunting them out of the House by military force is alluded to--

  Our politic doctors do us teach,
  That a blood-sucking red-coat's as good as a leech
  To relieve the head, if applied to the breech.

In the opening scene of the Restoration, Mrs. Hutchinson, an honest republican, paints with
dismay a scene otherwise very ludicrous. "When the town of Nottingham, as almost all the rest
of the island, began to grow mad, and declared themselves in their desires of the king;" or,
as another of the opposite party writes, "When the soldiery, who had hitherto made clubs trumps,
resolved now to turn up the king of hearts in their affections," the rabble in town and country
vied with each other in burning the "Rump;" and the literal emblem was hung by chains on gallowses,
with a bonfire underneath, while the cries of "Let us burn the Rump! Let us roast the Rump!"
were echoed everywhere. The suddenness of this universal change, which was said to have maddened
the wise, and to have sobered the mad, must be ascribed to the joy at escaping from the yoke
of a military despotism; perhaps, too, it marked the rapid transition of hope to a restoration
which might be supposed to have implanted gratitude even in a royal breast! The feelings of
the people expected to find an echo from the throne!

"The Rump," besides their general resemblance to the French anarchists, had also some minuter
features of ugliness, which Englishmen have often exulted have not marked an English revolution--sanguinary
proscriptions![328] We had thought that we had no revolutionary tribunals! no Septembrisers!
no noyades! no moveable guillotines awaiting for carts loaded with human victims! no infuriated
republican urging, in a committee of public safety, the necessity of a salutary massacre!

But if it be true that the same motives and the same principles were at work in both nations,
and that the like characters were performing in England the parts which they did afterwards
in France, by an argument à priori we might be sure that the same revolting crimes and chimerical
projects were alike suggested at London as at Paris. Human nature, even in transactions which
appear unparalleled, will be found to preserve a regularity of resemblance not always suspected.

The first great tragic act was closely copied by the French: and if the popular page of our
history appears unstained by their revolutionary axe, this depended only on a slight accident;
for it became a question of "yea" and "nay!" and was only carried in the negative by two voices
in the council! It was debated among "the bloody Rump," as it was hideously designated, "whether
to massacre and to put to the sword all the king's party!"[329] Cromwell himself listened to
the suggestion; and it was only put down by the coolness of political calculation--the dread
that the massacre would be too general! Some of the Rump not obtaining the blessedness of a
massacre, still clung to the happiness of an immolation; and many petitions were presented,
that "two or three principal gentlemen of the royal party in EACH COUNTY might be sacrificed
to justice, whereby the land might be saved from blood-guiltiness!" Sir Arthur Haslerigg, whose
"passionate fondness of liberty" has been commended,[330] was one of the committee of safety
in 1647--I too would commend "a passionate lover of liberty," whenever I do not discover that
this lover is much more intent on the dower than on the bride. Haslerigg, "an absurd, bold
man," as Clarendon, at a single stroke, reveals his character, was resolved not to be troubled
with king or bishop, or with any power in the state superior to "the Rump's." We may safely
suspect the patriot who can cool his vehemence in spoliation. Haslerigg would have no bishops,
but this was not from any want of reverence for church lands, for he heaped for himself such
wealth as to have been nicknamed "the Bishop of Durham!" He is here noticed for a political
crime different from that of plunder. When, in 1647, this venerable radical found the parliament
resisting his views, he declared that "Some heads must fly off!" adding, "the parliament cannot
save England; we must look another way;"--threatening, what afterwards was done, to bring in
the army! It was this "passionate lover of liberty" who, when Dorislaus, the parliamentary
agent, was assassinated by some Scotchmen in Holland, moved in the house, that "six royalists
of the best quality" should be immediately executed! When some northern counties petitioned
the Commons for relief against a famine in the land, our Maratist observed, that "this want
of food would best defend those counties from Scottish invasion!"[331] The slaughter of Drogheda
by Cromwell, and his frightening all London by what Walker calls "a butchery of apprentices,"
when he cried out to his soldiers, "to kill man, woman, and child, and fire the city!"[332]
may be placed among those crimes which are committed to open a reign of terror--but Hugh Peters's
solemn thanksgiving to Heaven that "none were spared!" was the true expression of the true
feeling of these political demoniacs. Cromwell was cruel from politics, others from constitution.
Some were willing to be cruel without "blood-guiltiness." One Alexander Rigby, a radical lawyer,
twice moved in the Long Parliament, that those lords and gentlemen who were "malignants," should
be sold as slaves to the Dey of Algiers, or sent off to the new plantations in the West Indies.
He had all things prepared; for it is added that he had contracted with two merchants to ship
them off.[333] There was a most bloody-minded "maker of washing-balls," as one John Durant
is described, appointed a lecturer by the House of Commons, who always left out of the Lord's
Prayer, "As we forgive them that trespass against us," and substituted, "Lord, since thou hast
now drawn out thy sword, let it not be sheathed again till it be glutted in the blood of the
malignants." I find too many enormities of this kind. "Cursed be he that doeth the work of
the Lord negligently, and keepeth back his sword from blood!" was the cry of the wretch, who,
when a celebrated actor and royalist sued for quarter, gave no other reply than that of "fitting
the action to the word."[334] Their treatment of the Irish may possibly be admired by a true
Machiavelist: "they permitted forty thousand of the Irish to enlist in the service of the kings
of Spain and France"--in other words, they expelled them at once, which, considering that our
Rumpers affected such an abhorrence of tyranny, may be considered as an act of mercy! satisfying
themselves only with dividing the forfeited lands of the aforesaid forty thousand among their
own party, by lot and other means. An universal confiscation, after all, is a bloodless massacre.
They used the Scotch soldiers, after the battles of Dunbar and Worcester, a little differently--but
equally efficaciously--for they sold their Scotch prisoners for slaves to the American planters.[335]

The Robespierres and the Marats were as extraordinary beings, and in some respects the Frenchmen
were working on a more enlarged scheme. These discovered that "the generation which had witnessed
the preceding one would always regret it; and for the security of the Revolution, it was necessary
that every person who was thirty years old in 1788 should perish on the scaffold!" The anarchists
were intent on reducing the French people to eight millions, and on destroying the great cities
of France.[336]

Such monstrous persons and events are not credible--but this is no proof that they have not
occurred. Many incredible things will happen!

Another disorganising feature in the English Rumpers was also observed in the French Sans-culottes--their
hatred of literature and the arts. Hebert was one day directing his satellites towards the
Bibliothèque Nationale, to put an end to all that human knowledge had collected for centuries
on centuries--in one day! alleging, of course, some good reason. This hero was only diverted
from the enterprise by being persuaded to postpone it for a day or two, when luckily the guillotine
intervened; the same circumstance occurred here. The burning of the records in the Tower was
certainly proposed; a speech of Selden's, which I cannot immediately turn to, put a stop to
these incendiaries. It was debated in the Rump parliament, when Cromwell was general, whether
they should dissolve the universities? They concluded that no university was necessary; that
there were no ancient examples of such education, and that scholars in other countries did
study at their own cost and charges, and therefore they looked on them as unnecessary, and
thought them fitting to be taken away for the public use!--How these venerable asylums escaped
from being sold with the king's pictures, as stone and timber, and why their rich endowments
were not shared among such inveterate ignorance and remorseless spoliation, might claim some
inquiry.

The Abbé Morellet, a great political economist, imagined that the source of all the crimes
of the French Revolution was their violation of the sacred rights of property. The perpetual
invectives of the Sans-culottes of France against proprietors and against property proceeded
from demoralised beings who formed panegyrics on all crimes; crimes, to explain whose revolutionary
terms, a new dictionary was required. But even these anarchists, in their mad expressions against
property, and in their wildest notions of their "égalité," have not gone beyond the daring
of our own "Rumpers!"

Of those revolutionary journals of the parliament of 1649, which in spirit so strongly resemble
the diurnal or hebdomadal effusions of the redoubtable French Hebert, Marat, and others of
that stamp, one of the most remarkable is, "The Moderate, impartially communicating Martial
Affairs to the Kingdom of England;" the monarchical title our commonwealth men had not yet
had time enough to obliterate from their colloquial style. This writer called himself, in his
barbarous English, The Moderate! It would be hard to conceive the meanness and illiteracy to
which the English language was reduced under the pens of the rabble-writers of these days,
had we not witnessed in the present time a parallel to their compositions. "The Moderate!"
was a title assumed on the principle on which Marat denominated himself "l'Ami du Peuple."
It is curious that the most ferocious politicians usually assert their moderation. Robespierre,
in his justification, declares that Marat "m'a souvent accusé de Modérantisme." The same actors,
playing the same parts, may be always paralleled in their language and their deeds. This "Moderate"
steadily pursued one great principle--the overthrow of all property. Assuming that property
was the original cause of sin! an exhortation to the people for this purpose is the subject
of the present paper:[337] the illustration of his principle is as striking as the principle
itself.

It is an apology for, or rather a defence of, robbery! Some moss-troopers had been condemned
to be hanged for practising their venerable custom of gratuitously supplying themselves from
the flocks and herds of their weaker neighbours: our "Moderate" ingeniously discovers that
the loss of these men's lives is to be attributed to nothing but property. They are necessitated
to offend the laws in order to obtain a livelihood!

On this he descants; and the extract is a political curiosity in the French style! "Property
is the original cause of any sin between party and party as to civil transactions. And since
the tyrant is taken off, and the government altered in nomine, so ought it really to redound
to the good of the people in specie; which, though they cannot expect it in few years, by reason
of the multiplicity of the gentlemen in authority, command, &c. who drive on all designs for
support of the old government, and consequently their own interest and the people's slavery,
yet they doubt not but in time the people will herein discern their own blindness and folly."

In September, he advanced with more depth of thought. "Wars have ever been clothed with the
most gracious pretences--viz., reformation of religion, the laws of the land, the liberty of
the subject, &c.; though the effects thereof have proved most destructive to every nation;
making the sword, and not the people, the original of all authorities for many hundred years
together, taking away each man's birthright, and settling upon a few A CURSED PROPRIETY; the
ground of all civil offences, and the greatest cause of most sins against the heavenly Deity.
This tyranny and oppression running through the veins of many of our predecessors, and being
too long maintained by the sword upon a royal foundation, at last became so customary, as to
the vulgar it seemed most natural--the only reason why the people of this time are so ignorant
of their birthright, their only freedom," &c.

"The birthright" of citoyen Egalité to "a cursed propriety settled on a few," was not, even
among the French Jacobins, urged with more amazing force. Had things proceeded according to
our "Moderate's" plan, "the people's slavery" had been something worse. In a short time the
nation would have had more proprietors than property. We have a curious list of the spoliations
of those members of the House of Commons, who, after their famous self-denying ordinances,
appropriated among themselves sums of money, offices, and lands, for services "done or to be done."

The most innocent of this new government of "the Majesty of the People," were those whose talents
had been limited by Nature to peddle and purloin; puny mechanics, who had suddenly dropped
their needles, their hammers, and their lasts, and slunk out from behind their shop-counters;
those who had never aspired beyond the constable of the parish, were now seated in the council
of state; where, as Milton describes them, "they fell to huckster the commonwealth:" there
they met a more rabid race of obscure lawyers, and discontented men of family, of blasted reputations;
adventurers, who were to command the militia and navy of England,--governors of the three kingdoms!
whose votes and ordinances resounded with nothing else but new impositions, new taxes, excises,
yearly, monthly, weekly sequestrations, compositions, and universal robbery!

Baxter vents one deep groan of indignation, and presciently announces one future consequence
of Reform! "In all this appeared the severity of God, the mutability of worldly things, and
the fruits of error, pride, and selfishness, to be charged hereafter upon reformation and religion."
As a statesman, the sagacity of this honest prophet was narrowed by the horizon of his religious
views; for he ascribes the whole as "prepared by Satan to the injury of the Protestant cause,
and the advantage of the Papists!" But dropping his particular application to the devil and
the Papists, honest Richard Baxter is perfectly right in his general principle concerning "Rumpers,"--"Sans-culottes,"
and "Radicals."

FOOTNOTES:

  [325] History of Independency, Part II. p. 32.

  [326] First collected and published in 1661, and afterwards reprinted
    in two small vols. 1731.

  [327] The first collection ever formed of these political satires
    was printed in 1660, with the quaint title of "Ratts rhimed to
    Death; or, the Rump-parliament hang'd up in the Shambles."

  [328] In one of the popular political songs of the day, "The Rump"
    is aptly compared to

      "The foxes of Samson, that carried a brand
      In their tails, to destroy and to burn up the land."

  [329] Clement Walker's History of Independency, part II. p. 130.
    Confirmed by Barwick in his Life, p. 163.

  [330] The Rev. Mark Noble's Memoirs of the Protectoral House of
    Cromwell, i. 405.

  [331] Clement Walker's History of Independency, Part II. 173.

  [332] Ib., Part I. 160.

  [333] Mercurius Rusticus, xii. 115. Barwick's Life, p. 42.

  [334] This actor was a comedian named Robinson, of the Blackfriars
    Theatre; the performers there being termed "the king's servants." In
    the civil wars most of the young actors, deprived of living by their
    profession, all theatres being closed by order of the Parliament,
    went into the king's army. Robinson was fighting at the siege of
    Basing House, in Hampshire, October, 1645, when after an obstinate
    defence his party was defeated, he laid down his arms, suing for
    quarter, but was shot through the head by Colonel Harrison, as he
    repeated the words quoted above.

  [335] The following account is drawn from Sir William Dugdale's
    interleaved Pocket-book for 1648.--"Aug. 17. The Scotch army, under
    the command of Duke Hamilton, defeated at Preston in Lancashire.
    24th. The Moorlanders rose upon the Scots and stript some of them.
    The Scotch prisoners miserably used; exposed to eat cabbage-leaves
    in Ridgley (Staffordshire), and carrot-tops in Coleshill
    (Warwickshire). The soldiers who guarded them sold the victuals
    which were brought in for them from the country."

  [336] Desodoard's Histoire Philosophique de la Révolution de France,
    iv. 5. When Lyons was captured in 1793, the revolutionary army
    nearly reduced this fine city to a heap of ruins, in obedience to
    the decree of the Montagne, who had ordered its name to be effaced,
    that it should henceforth be termed, "Commune affranchie," and upon
    its ruins a column erected and inscribed, "Lyon fit la guerre à la
    liberté; Lyon n'est plus."

  [337] The Moderate, from Tuesday, July 31, to August 7, 1649.

LIFE AND HABITS OF A LITERARY ANTIQUARY.--OLDYS AND HIS MANUSCRIPTS.

Such a picture may be furnished by some unexpected materials which my inquiries have obtained
of Oldys. This is a sort of personage little known to the wits, who write more than they read,
and to their volatile votaries, who only read what the wits write. It is time to vindicate
the honours of the few whose laborious days enrich the stores of national literature, not by
the duplicates but the supplements of knowledge. A literary antiquary is that idler whose life
is passed in a perpetual voyage autour de ma chambre; fervent in sagacious diligence, instinct
with the enthusiasm of curious inquiry, critical as well as erudite; he has to arbitrate between
contending opinions, to resolve the doubtful, to clear up the obscure, and to grasp at the
remote; so busied with other times, and so interested for other persons than those about him,
that he becomes the inhabitant of the visionary world of books. He counts only his days by
his acquisitions, and may be said by his original discoveries to be the CREATOR OF FACTS; often
exciting the gratitude of the literary world, while the very name of the benefactor has not
always descended with the inestimable labours.

Such is the man whom we often find leaving, when he dies, his favourite volumes only an incomplete
project! and few of this class of literary men have escaped the fate reserved for most of their
brothers. Voluminous works have been usually left unfinished by the death of the authors; and
it is with them as with the planting of trees, of which Johnson has forcibly observed, "There
is a frightful interval between the seed and timber." The days of the patriotic Count Mazzuchelli
were freely given to his national literature; and six invaluable folios attest the gigantic
force of his immense erudition; yet these only carry us through the letters A and B: and though
Mazzuchelli had finished for the press other volumes, the torpor of his descendants has defrauded
Europe of her claims.[338] The Abbé Goujet, who had designed a classified history of his national
literature, in the eighteen volumes we possess, could only conclude that of the translators,
and commence that of the poets; two other volumes in manuscript have perished. That great enterprise
of the Benedictines, the "Histoire Litéraire de la France," now consists of twelve large quartos,
and the industry of its successive writers has only been able to carry it to the twelfth century.
David Clement designed the most extensive bibliography which had ever appeared; but the diligent
life of the writer could only proceed as far as H. The alphabetical order, which so many writers
of this class have adopted, has proved a mortifying memento of human life! Tiraboschi was so
fortunate as to complete his great national history of Italian literature. But, unhappily for
us, Thomas Warton, after feeling his way through the darker ages of our poetry, in planning
the map of the beautiful land, of which he had only a Pisgah-sight, expired amidst his volumes.
The most precious portion of Warton's history is but the fragment of a fragment.

Oldys, among this brotherhood, has met perhaps with a harder fate; his published works, and
the numerous ones to which he contributed, are now highly appreciated by the lovers of books;
but the larger portion of his literary labours have met with the sad fortune of dispersed,
and probably of wasted manuscripts. Oldys's manuscripts, or O. M. as they are sometimes designated,
are constantly referred to by every distinguished writer on our literary history. I believe
that not one of them could have given us any positive account of the manuscripts themselves!
They have indeed long served as the solitary sources of information--but like the well at the
wayside, too many have drawn their waters in silence.

Oldys is chiefly known by the caricature of the facetious Grose; a great humourist, both with
pencil and with pen: it is in a posthumous scrap-book, where Grose deposited his odds and ends,
and where there is perhaps not a single story which is not satirical. Our lively antiquary,
who cared more for rusty armour than for rusty volumes, would turn over these flams and quips
to some confidential friend, to enjoy together a secret laugh at their literary intimates.
His eager executor, who happened to be his bookseller, served up the poignant hash to the public
as "Grose's Olio!"[339] The delineation of Oldys is sufficiently overcharged for "the nonce."
One prevalent infirmity of honest Oldys, his love of companionship over too social a glass,
sends him down to posterity in a grotesque attitude; and Mr. Alexander Chalmers, who has given
us the fullest account of Oldys, has inflicted on him something like a sermon, on "a state
of intoxication."

Alas! Oldys was an outcast of fortune,[340] and the utter simplicity of his heart was guileless
as a child's--ever open to the designing. The noble spirit of a Duke of Norfolk once rescued
the long-lost historian of Rawleigh from the confinement of the Fleet, where he had existed,
probably forgotten by the world, for six years. It was by an act of grace that the duke safely
placed Oldys in the Heralds' College as Norroy King of Arms.[341] But Oldys, like all shy and
retired men, had contracted peculiar habits and close attachments for a few; both these he
could indulge at no distance. He liked his old associates in the purlieus of the Fleet, whom
he facetiously dignified as "his Rulers," and there, as I have heard, with the grotesque whim
of a herald, established "The Dragon Club." Companionship yields the poor man unpurchased pleasures.
Oldys, busied every morning among the departed wits and the learned of our country, reflected
some image from them of their wit and learning to his companions: a secret history as yet untold,
and ancient wit, which, cleared of the rust, seemed to him brilliant as the modern!

It is hard, however, for a literary antiquary to be caricatured, and for a herald to be ridiculed
about an "unseemly reeling with the coronet of the Princess Caroline, which looked unsteady
on the cushion, to the great scandal of his brethren,"--a circumstance which could never have
occurred at the burial of a prince or princess, as the coronet is carried by Clarencieux, and
not by Norroy. Oldys's deep potations of ale, however, give me an opportunity of bestowing
on him the honour of being the author of a popular Anacreontic song. Mr. Taylor informs me
that "Oldys always asserted that he was the author of the well-known song--

  Busy, curious, thirsty fly!

and as he was a rigid lover of truth, I doubt not that he wrote it." My own researches confirm
it: I have traced this popular song through a dozen of collections since the year 1740, the
first in which I find it. In the later collections an original inscription has been dropped,
which the accurate Ritson has restored, without, however, being able to discover the writer.
In 1740 it is said to have been "made extempore by a gentleman, occasioned by a fly drinking
out of his cup of ale;"--the accustomed potion of poor Oldys![342]

Grose, however, though a great joker on the peculiarities of Oldys, was far from insensible
to the extraordinary acquisitions of the man. "His knowledge of English books has hardly been
exceeded." Grose, too, was struck by the delicacy of honour, and the unswerving veracity which
so strongly characterised Oldys, of which he gives a remarkable instance.[343] We are concerned
in ascertaining the moral integrity of the writer, whose main business is with history.

At a time when our literary history, excepting in the solitary labour of Anthony Wood, was
a forest, with neither road nor pathway, Oldys, fortunately placed in the library of the Earl
of Oxford, yielded up his entire days to researches concerning the books and the men of the
preceding age. His labours were then valueless, their very nature not yet ascertained, and
when he opened the treasures of our ancient lore in "The British Librarian," it was closed
for want of public encouragement. Our writers, then struggling to create an age of genius of
their own, forgot that they had had any progenitors; or while they were acquiring new modes
of excellence, that they were losing others, to which their posterity or the national genius
might return. (To know, and to admire only, the literature and the tastes of our own age, is
a species of elegant barbarism.)[344] Spenser was considered nearly as obsolete as Chaucer;
Milton was veiled by oblivion, and Shakspeare's dramas were so imperfectly known, that in looking
over the play-bills of 1711, and much later, I find that whenever it chanced that they were
acted, they were always announced to have been "written by Shakspeare." Massinger was unknown;
and Jonson, though called "immortal" in the old play-bills, lay entombed in his two folios.
The poetical era of Elizabeth, the eloquent age of James the First, and the age of wit of Charles
the Second, were blanks in our literary history. Bysshe, compiling an Art of Poetry in 1718,
passed by in his collection "Spenser and the poets of his age, because their language is now
become so obsolete that most readers of our age have no ear for them, and therefore Shakspeare
himself is so rarely cited in my collection." The best English poets were considered to be
the modern; a taste which is always obstinate!

All this was nothing to Oldys; his literary curiosity anticipated by half a century the fervour
of the present day. This energetic direction of all his thoughts was sustained by that life
of discovery which in literary researches is starting novelties among old and unremembered
things; contemplating some ancient tract as precious as a manuscript, or revelling in the volume
of a poet whose passport of fame was yet delayed in its way; or disinterring the treasure of
some secluded manuscript, whence he drew a virgin extract; or raising up a sort of domestic
intimacy with the eminent in arms, in politics, and in literature in this visionary life, life
itself with Oldys was insensibly gliding away--its cares almost unfelt!

The life of a literary antiquary partakes of the nature of those who, having no concerns of
their own, busy themselves with those of others. Oldys lived in the back ages of England; he
had crept among the dark passages of Time, till, like an old gentleman usher, he seemed to
be reporting the secret history of the courts which he had lived in. He had been charmed among
their masques and revels, had eyed with astonishment their cumbrous magnificence, when knights
and ladies carried on their mantles and their cloth of gold ten thousand pounds' worth of ropes
of pearls, and buttons of diamonds; or, descending to the gay court of the second Charles,
he tattled merry tales, as in that of the first he had painfully watched, like a patriot or
a loyalist, a distempered era. He had lived so constantly with these people of another age,
and had so deeply interested himself in their affairs, and so loved the wit and the learning
which are often bright under the rust of antiquity, that his own uncourtly style is embrowned
with the tint of a century old. But it was this taste and curiosity which alone could have
produced the extraordinary volume of Sir Walter Rawleigh's life--a work richly inlaid with
the most curious facts and the juxtaposition of the most remote knowledge; to judge by its
fulness of narrative, it would seem rather to have been the work of a contemporary.[345]

It was an advantage in this primæval era of literary curiosity, that those volumes which are
now not even to be found in our national library, where certainly they are perpetually wanted,
and which are now so excessively appreciated, were exposed on stalls, through the reigns of
Anne and the two Georges.[346] Oldys encountered no competitor, cased in the invulnerable mail
of his purse, to dispute his possession of the rarest volume. On the other hand, our early
collector did not possess our advantages; he could not fly for instant aid to a "Biographia
Britannica," he had no history of our poetry, nor even of our drama. Oldys could tread in no
man's path, for every soil about him was unbroken ground. He had to create everything for his
own purposes. We gather fruit from trees which others have planted, and too often we but "pluck
and eat."

Nulla dies sine linea, was his sole hope while he was accumulating masses of notes; and as
Oldys never used his pen from the weak passion of scribbling, but from the urgency of preserving
some substantial knowledge, or planning some future inquiry, he amassed nothing but what he
wished to remember. Even the minuter pleasures of settling a date, or classifying a title-page,
were enjoyments to his incessant pen. Everything was acquisition. This never-ending business
of research appears to have absorbed his powers, and sometimes to have dulled his conceptions.
No one more aptly exercised the tact of discovery; he knew where to feel in the dark: but he
was not of the race--that race indeed had not yet appeared among us--who could melt into their
Corinthian brass the mingled treasures of Research, Imagination, and Philosophy!

We may be curious to inquire where our literary antiquary deposited the discoveries and curiosities
which he was so incessantly acquiring. They were dispersed, on many a fly-leaf, in occasional
memorandum-books; in ample marginal notes on his authors--they were sometimes thrown into what
he calls his "parchment budgets," or "Bags of Biography--of Botany--of Obituary"--of "Books
relative to London," and other titles and bags, which he was every day filling.[347] Sometimes
his collections seem to have been intended for a series of volumes, for he refers to "My first
Volume of Tables of the eminent Persons celebrated by English Poets"--to another of "Poetical
Characteristics." Among those manuscripts which I have seen, I find one mentioned, apparently
of a wide circuit, under the reference of "My Biographical Institutions. Part third; containing
a Catalogue of all the English Lives, with Historical and Critical Observations on them." But
will our curious or our whimsical collectors of the present day endure without impatience the
loss of a quarto manuscript, which bears this rich condiment for its title--"Of London Libraries;
with Anecdotes of Collectors of Books; Remarks on Booksellers; and on the first Publishers
of Catalogues?" Oldys left ample annotations on "Fuller's Worthies," and "Winstanley's Lives
of the Poets," and on "Langbaine's Dramatic Poets." The late Mr. Boswell showed me a Fuller
in the Malone collection, with Steevens's transcriptions of Oldys's notes, which Malone purchased
for 43l. at Steevens's sale; but where is the original copy of Oldys? The "Winstanley," I think,
also reposes in the same collection. The "Langbaine" is far-famed, and is preserved in the
British Museum, the gift of Dr. Birch; it has been considered so precious, that several of
our eminent writers have cheerfully passed through the labour of a minute transcription of
its numberless notes. In the history of the fate and fortune of books, that of Oldys's Langbaine
is too curious to omit. Oldys may tell his own story, which I find in the Museum copy, p. 336,
and which copy appears to be a second attempt; for of the first Langbaine we have this account:--

   When I left London in 1724, to reside in Yorkshire, I left in the
   care of the Rev. Mr. Burridge's family, with whom I had several years
   lodged, among many other books, goods, &c., a copy of this
   "Langbaine," in which I had wrote several notes and references to
   further knowledge of these poets. Shiels has been
recently castigated by Mr. Gifford.

These literary jobbers nowhere distinguished Coxeter's and Oldys's curious matter from their
own. Such was the fate of the first copy of Langbaine, with Oldys's notes; but the second is
more important. At an auction of some of Oldys's books and manuscripts, of which I have seen
a printed catalogue, Dr. Birch purchased this invaluable copy for three shillings and sixpence.[349]
Such was the value attached to these original researches concerning our poets, and of which,
to obtain only a transcript, very large sums have since been cheerfully given. The Museum copy
of Langbaine is in Oldys's handwriting, not interleaved, but overflowing with notes, written
in a very small hand about the margins, and inserted between the lines; nor may the transcriber
pass negligently even its corners, otherwise he is here assured that he will lose some useful
date, or the hint of some curious reference. The enthusiasm and diligence of Oldys, in undertaking
a repetition of his first lost labour, proved to be infinitely greater than the sense of his
unrequited labours. Such is the history of the escapes, the changes, and the fate of a volume
which forms the groundwork of the most curious information concerning our elder poets, and
to which we must still frequently refer.

In this variety of literary arrangements, which we must consider as single works in a progressive
state, or as portions of one great work on our modern literary history, it may, perhaps, be
justly suspected that Oldys, in the delight of perpetual acquisition, impeded the happier labour
of unity of design and completeness of purpose. He was not a Tiraboschi--nor even a Niceron!
He was sometimes chilled by neglect, and by "vanity and vexation of spirit," else we should
not now have to count over a barren list of manuscript works; masses of literary history, of
which the existence is even doubtful.

In Kippis's Biographia Britannica we find frequent references to O. M., Oldys's Manuscripts.
Mr. John Taylor, the son of the friend and executor of Oldys, has greatly obliged me with all
his recollections of this man of letters; whose pursuits, however, were in no manner analogous
to his, and whom he could only have known in youth. By him I learn, that on the death of Oldys,
Dr. Kippis, editor of the Biographia Britannica, looked over these manuscripts at Mr. Taylor's
house. He had been directed to this discovery by the late Bishop of Dromore, whose active zeal
was very remarkable in every enterprise to enlarge our literary history. Kippis was one who,
in some degree, might have estimated their literary value; but, employed by commercial men,
and negotiating with persons who neither comprehended their nature, nor affixed any value to
them, the editor of the Biographia found Oldys's manuscripts an easy purchase for his employer,
the late Mr. Cadell; and the twenty guineas, perhaps, served to bury their writer! Mr. Taylor
says--"The manuscripts of Oldys were not so many as might be expected from so indefatigable
a writer. They consisted chiefly of short extracts from books, and minutes of dates, and were
thought worth purchasing by the doctor. I remember the manuscripts well; though Oldys was not
the author, but rather recorder." Such is the statement and the opinion of a writer whose effusions
are of a gayer sort. But the researches of Oldys must not be estimated by this standard; with
him a single line was the result of many a day of research, and a leaf of scattered hints would
supply more original knowledge than some octavos fashioned out by the hasty gilders and varnishers
of modern literature. These discoveries occupy small space to the eye; but large works are
composed out of them. This very lot of Oldys's manuscripts was, indeed, so considerable in
the judgment of Kippis, that he has described them as "a large and useful body of biographical
materials, left by Mr. Oldys." Were these the "Biographical Institutes" Oldys refers to among
his manuscripts? "The late Mr. Malone," continues Mr. Taylor, "told me that he had seen all
Oldys's manuscripts; so I presume they are in the hands of Cadell and Davies." Have they met
with the fate of sucked oranges?--and how much of Malone may we owe to Oldys?

This information enabled me to trace the manuscripts of Oldys to Dr. Kippis; but it cast me
among the booksellers, who do not value manuscripts which no one can print. I discovered, by
the late Mr. Davies, that the direction of that hapless work in our literary history, with
its whole treasure of manuscripts, had been consigned by Mr. Cadell to the late George Robinson,
and that the successor of Dr. Kippis had been the late Dr. George Gregory. Again I repeat,
the history of voluminous works is a melancholy office; every one concerned with them no longer
can be found! The esteemed relict of Dr. Gregory, with a friendly promptitude, gratified my
anxious inquiries, and informed me, that "she perfectly recollects a mass of papers, such as
I described, being returned, on the death of Dr. Gregory, to the house of Wilkie and Robinson,
in the early part of the year 1809." I applied to this house, who, after some time, referred
me to Mr. John Robinson, the representative of his late father, and with whom all the papers
of the former partnership were deposited. But Mr. John Robinson has terminated my inquiries,
by his civility in promising to comply with them, and his pertinacity in not doing so. He may
have injured his own interest in not trading with my curiosity.[350] It was fortunate for the
nation that George Vertue's mass of manuscripts escaped the fate of Oldys's; had the possessor
proved as indolent, Horace Walpole would not have been the writer of his most valuable work,
and we should have lost the "Anecdotes of Painting," of which Vertue had collected the materials.

Of a life consumed in such literary activity we should have known more had the Diaries of Oldys
escaped destruction. "One habit of my father's old friend, William Oldys," says Mr. Taylor,
"was that of keeping a diary, and recording in it every day all the events that occurred, and
all his engagements, and the employment of his time. I have seen piles of these books, but
know not what became of them." The existence of such diaries is confirmed by a sale catalogue
of Thomas Davies, the literary bookseller, who sold many of the books and some manuscripts
of Oldys, which appear to have been dispersed in various libraries. I find Lot "3627, Mr. Oldys's
Diary, containing several observations relating to books, characters, &c.;" a single volume,
which appears to have separated from the "piles" which Mr. Taylor once witnessed. The literary
diary of Oldys could have exhibited the mode of his pursuits, and the results of his discoveries.
One of these volumes I have fortunately discovered, and a singularity in this writer's feelings
throws a new interest over such diurnal records. Oldys was apt to give utterance with his pen
to his most secret emotions. Querulous or indignant, his honest simplicity confided to the
paper before him such extemporaneous soliloquies, and I have found him hiding in the very corners
of his manuscripts his "secret sorrows."

A few of these slight memorials of his feelings will exhibit a sort of Silhouette likeness
traced by his own hand, when at times the pensive man seems to have contemplated his own shadow.
Oldys would throw down in verses, whose humility or quaintness indicates their origin, or by
some pithy adage, or apt quotation, or recording anecdote, his self-advice, or his self-regrets!

Oppressed by a sense of tasks so unprofitable to himself, while his days were often passed
in trouble and in prison, he breathes a self-reproach in one of these profound reflections
of melancholy which so often startle the man of study, who truly discovers that life is too
limited to acquire real knowledge, with the ambition of dispensing it to the world:--

  I say, who too long in these cobwebs lurks,
  Is always whetting tools, but never works.

In one of the corners of his note-books I find this curious but sad reflection:--

  Alas! this is but the apron of a fig-leaf--but the curtain of a cobweb.

Sometimes he seems to have anticipated the fate of that obscure diligence which was pursuing
discoveries reserved for others to use:--

  He heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall gather them.

  Fond treasurer of these stores, behold thy fate
  In Psalm the thirty-ninth, 6, 7, and 8.

Sometimes he checks the eager ardour of his pen, and reminds himself of its repose, in Latin,
Italian, and English.

  ----Non vi, sed sæpe cadendo.
  Assai presto si fa quel che si fa bene.

  Some respite best recovers what we need,
  Discreetly baiting gives the journey speed.

There was a thoughtless kindness in honest Oldys; and his simplicity of character, as I have
observed, was practised on by the artful or the ungenerous. We regret to find the following
entry concerning the famous collector, James West:--

   I gave above threescore letters of Dr. Davenant to his son, who was
   envoy at Frankfort in 1703 to 1708, to Mr. James West,[351] with one
   hundred and fifty more, about Christmas, 1746: but the same fate they
   found as grain that is sown in barren ground.

Such is the plaintive record by which Oldys relieved himself of a groan! We may smile at the
simplicity of the following narrative, where poor Oldys received manuscripts in lieu of money:--

   Old Counsellor Fane, of Colchester, who, in formâ pauperis,
   deceived me of a good sum of money which he owed me, and not long
   after set up his chariot, gave me a parcel of manuscripts, and
   promised me others, which he never gave me, nor anything else,
   besides a barrel of oysters, and a manuscript copy of Randolph's
   poems, an original, as he said, with many additions, being devolved
   to him as the author's relation.

There was no end to his aids and contributions to every author or bookseller who applied to
him; yet he had reason to complain of both while they were using his invaluable but not valued
knowledge. Here is one of these diurnal entries:--

   I lent the tragical lives and deaths of the famous pirates, Ward and
   Dansiker, 4to, London, 1612, by Robt. Daborn, alias Dabourne, to Mr.
   T. Lediard, when he was writing his Naval History, and he never
   returned it. See Howell's Letters of them.

In another, when his friend T. Hayward was collecting, for his "British Muse," the most exquisite
commonplaces of our old English dramatists, a compilation which must not be confounded with
ordinary ones, Oldys not only assisted in the labour, but drew up a curious introduction with
a knowledge and love of the subject which none but himself possessed. But so little were these
researches then understood, that we find Oldys, in a moment of vexatious recollection, and
in a corner of one of the margins of his Langbaine, accidentally preserving an extraordinary
circumstance attending this curious dissertation. Oldys having completed this elaborate introduction,
"the penurious publisher insisted on leaving out one third part, which happened to be the best
matter in it, because he would have it contracted into one sheet!" Poor Oldys never could forget
the fate of this elaborate Dissertation on all the collections of English poetry; I am confident
that I have seen some volume which was formerly Oldys's, and afterwards Thomas Warton's, in
the possession of my intelligent friend Mr. Douce, in the fly-leaf of which Oldys has expressed
himself in these words:--"In my historical and critical review of all the collections of this
kind, it would have made a sheet and a half or two sheets; but they for sordid gain, and to
save a little expense in print and paper, got Mr. John Campbell to cross it and cramp it, and
play the devil with it, till they squeezed it into less compass than a sheet." This is a loss
which we may never recover. The curious book-knowledge of this singular man of letters, those
stores of which he was the fond treasurer, as he says with such tenderness for his pursuits,
were always ready to be cast into the forms of a dissertation or an introduction; and when
Morgan published his Collection of Rare Tracts, the friendly hand of Oldys furnished "A Dissertation
upon Pamphlets, in a Letter to a Nobleman;" probably the Earl of Oxford, a great literary curiosity;
and in the Harleian Collection he has given a Catalogue raisonné of six hundred. When Mrs.
Cooper attempted "The Muse's Library," the first essay which influenced the national taste
to return to our deserted poets in our most poetical age, it was Oldys who only could have
enabled this lady to perform that task so well.[352] When Curll, the publisher, to help out
one of his hasty compilations, a "History of the Stage," repaired, like all the world, to Oldys,
whose kindness could not resist the importunity of this busy publisher, he gave him a life
of Nell Gwynn; while at the same moment Oldys could not avoid noticing, in one of his usual
entries, an intended work on the stage, which we seem never to have had, "Dick Leveridge's
History of the Stage and Actors in his own Time, for these forty or fifty years past, as he
told me he had composed, is likely to prove, whenever it shall appear, a more perfect work."
I might proceed with many similar gratuitous contributions with which he assisted his contemporaries.
Oldys should have been constituted the reader for the nation. His Comptes Rendus of books and
manuscripts are still held precious; but his useful and curious talent had sought the public
patronage in vain! From one of his "Diaries," which has escaped destruction, I transcribe some
interesting passages ad verbum.

The reader is here presented with a minute picture of those invisible occupations which pass
in the study of a man of letters. There are those who may be surprised, as well as amused,
in discovering how all the business, even to the very disappointments and pleasures of active
life, can be transferred to the silent chamber of a recluse student; but there are others who
will not read without emotion the secret thoughts of him who, loving literature with its purest
passion, scarcely repines at being defrauded of his just fame, and leaves his stores for the
after-age of his more gifted heirs. Thus we open one of Oldys's literary days:--

   I was informed that day by Mr. Tho. Odell's daughter, that her
   father, who was Deputy-Inspector and Licenser of the Plays, died 24
   May, 1749, at his house in Chappel-street, Westminster, aged 58
   years. He was writing a history of the characters he had observed,
   and conferences he had had with many eminent persons he knew in his
   time. He was a great observator of everything curious in the
   conversations of his acquaintance, and his own conversation was a
   living chronicle of the remarkable intrigues, adventures, sayings,
   stories, writings, &c., of many of the quality, poets, and other
   authors, players, booksellers, &c., who flourished especially in the
   present century. He had been a popular man at elections, and sometime
   master of the playhouse in Goodman's Fields, but latterly was forced
   to live reserved and retired by reason of his debts. He published two
   or three dramatic pieces, one was the Patron, on the story of Lord
   Romney.

   Q. of his da. to restore me Eustace Budgell's papers, and to get a
   sight of her father's.

   Have got the one, and seen the other.

   July 31.--Was at Mrs. Odell's; she returned me Mr. Budgell's papers.
   Saw some of her husband's papers, mostly poems in favour of the
   ministry, and against Mr. Pope. One of them, printed by the late Sir
   Robert Walpole's encouragement, who gave him ten guineas for writing
   and as much for the expense of printing it; but through his advice
   it was never published, because it might hurt his interest with Lord
   Chesterfield, and some other noblemen who favoured Mr. Pope for his
   fine genius. The tract I liked best of his writings was the history
   of his playhouse in Goodman's Fields. (Remember that which was
   published against that playhouse, which I have entered in my London
   Catalogue. Letter to Sir Ric. Brocas, Lord Mayor, &c., 8vo, 1730.)

   Saw nothing of the history of his conversations with ingenious men;
   his characters, tales, jests, and intrigues of them, of which no man
   was better furnished with them. She thinks she has some papers of
   these, and promises to look them out, and also to inquire after Mr.
   Griffin, of the Lord Chamberlain's office, that I may get a search
   made about Spenser.

So intent was Oldys on these literary researches that we see, by the last words of this entry,
how in hunting after one sort of game, his undivided zeal kept his eye on another. One of his
favourite subjects was the realising of original discoveries respecting Spenser and Shakspeare;
of whom, perhaps, to our shame, as it is to our vexation, it may be said that two of our master-poets
are those of whom we know the least! Oldys once flattered himself that he should be able to
have given the world a Life of Shakspeare. Mr. John Taylor informs me, that "Oldys had contracted
to supply ten years of the life of Shakspeare unknown to the biographers, with one Walker,
a bookseller in the Strand; and as Oldys did not live to fulfil the engagement, my father was
obliged to return to Walker twenty guineas which he had advanced on the work." That interesting
narrative is now hopeless for us. Yet, by the solemn contract into which Oldys had entered,
and from his strict integrity, it might induce one to suspect that he had made positive discoveries
which are now irrecoverable.

We may observe the manner of his anxious inquiries about Spenser:--

   Ask Sir Peter Thompson if it were improper to try if Lord Effingham
   Howard would procure the pedigrees in the Herald's office, to be seen
   for Edmund Spenser's parentage or family? or how he was related to
   Sir John Spenser of Althorpe, in Northamptonshire? to three of whose
   daughters, who all married nobility, Spenser dedicates three of his
   poems.

   Of Mr. Vertue, to examine Stowe's memorandum-book. Look more
   carefully for the year when Spenser's monument was raised, or between
   which years the entry stands--1623 and 1626.

   Sir Clement Cottrell's book about Spenser.

   Captain Power, to know if he has heard from Capt. Spenser about my
   letter of inquiries relating to Edward Spenser.

   Of Whiston, to examine if my remarks on Spenser are complete as to
   the press--Yes.

   Remember, when I see Mr. W. Thompson, to inquire whether he has
   printed in any of his works any other character of our old poets
   than those of Spenser and Shakspeare;[353] and to get the liberty of
   a visit at Kentish Town, to see his Collection of Robert Greene's
   Works, in about four large volumes quarto. He commonly published a
   pamphlet every term, as his acquaintance Tom Nash informs us.

Two or three other memorials may excite a smile at his peculiar habits of study, and unceasing
vigilance to draw from original sources of information.

   Dryden's Dream, at Lord Exeter's, at Burleigh, while he was
   translating Virgil, as Signior Verrio, then painting there, related
   it to the Yorkshire painter, of whom I had it, lies in the parchment
   book in quarto, designed for his life.

At a subsequent period Oldys inserts, "Now entered therein." Malone quotes this very memorandum,
which he discovered in Oldys's Langbaine, to show Dryden had some confidence in Oneirocriticism,
and supposed that future events were sometimes prognosticated by dreams. Malone adds, "Where
either the loose prophetic leaf or the parchment book now is, I know not."[354]

Unquestionably we have incurred a great loss in Oldys's collections for Dryden's Life, which
are very extensive; such a mass of literary history cannot have perished unless by accident;
and I suspect that many of Oldys's manuscripts are in the possession of individuals who are
not acquainted with his hand-writing, which may be easily verified.

   To search the old papers in one of my large deal boxes for Dryden's
   letter of thanks to my father, for some communication relating to
   Plutarch, while they and others were publishing a translation of
   Plutarch's Lives, in five volumes 8vo. 1683. It is copied in the
   yellow book for Dryden's Life, in which there are about 150
   transcriptions, in prose and verse, relating to the life, character,
   and writings of Dryden.--Is England's Remembrancer extracted out of
   my obit. (obituary) into my remarks on him in the poetical bag?

   My extracts in the parchment budget about Denham's seat and family
   in Surrey.

   My white vellum pocket-book, bordered with gold, for the extract
   from "Groans of Great Britain" about Butler.

   See my account of the great yews in Tankersley's park, while Sir R.
   Fanshaw was prisoner in the lodge there; especially Talbot's yew,
   which a man on horseback might turn about in, in my botanical
   budget.

   This Donald Lupton I have mentioned in my catalogue of all the
   books and pamphlets relative to London in folio, begun anno 1740, and
   in which I have now, 1740, entered between 300 and 400 articles,
   besides remarks, &c. Now, in June, 1748, between 400 and 500
   articles. Now, in October, 1750, six hundred and thirty-six.[355]

There remains to be told an anecdote which shows that Pope greatly regarded our literary antiquary.
"Oldys," says my friend, "was one of the librarians of the Earl of Oxford, and he used to tell
a story of the credit which he obtained as a scholar, by setting Pope right in a Latin quotation
which he made at the earl's table. He did not, however, as I remember, boast of having been
admitted as a guest at the table, but as happening to be in the room." Why might not Oldys,
however, have been seated, at least below the salt? It would do no honour to either party to
suppose that Oldys stood among the menials. The truth is, there appears to have existed a confidential
intercourse between Pope and Oldys; of this I shall give a remarkable proof. In those fragments
of Oldys, preserved as "additional anecdotes of Shakspeare," in Steevens's and Malone's editions,
Oldys mentions a story of Davenant, which, he adds, "Mr. Pope told me at the Earl of Oxford's
table!" And further relates a conversation which passed between them. Nor is this all; for
in Oldys's Langbaine he put down this memorandum in the article of Shakspeare--"Remember what
I observed to my Lord Oxford for Mr. Pope's use out of Cowley's preface." Malone appears to
have discovered this observation of Cowley's, which is curious enough, and very ungrateful
to that commentator's ideas: it is "to prune and lop away the old withered branches" in the
new editions of Shakspeare and other ancient poets! "Pope adopted," says Malone, "this very
unwarrantable idea; Oldys was the person who suggested to Pope the singular course he pursued
in his edition of Shakspeare." Without touching on the felicity or the danger of this new system
of republishing Shakspeare, one may say that if many passages were struck out, Shakspeare would
not be injured, for many of them were never composed by that great bard! There not only existed
a literary intimacy between Oldys and Pope, but our poet adopting his suggestions on so important
an occasion, evinces how highly he esteemed his judgment; and unquestionably Pope had often
been delighted by Oldys with the history of his predecessors, and the curiosities of English
poetry.

I have now introduced the reader to Oldys sitting amidst his "poetical bags," his "parchment
biographical budgets," his "catalogues," and his "diaries," often venting a solitary groan,
or active in some fresh inquiry. Such is the Silhouette of this prodigy of literary curiosity!

The very existence of Oldys's manuscripts continues to be of an ambiguous nature; referred
to, quoted, and transcribed, we can but seldom turn to the originals. These masses of curious
knowledge, dispersed or lost, have enriched an after-race, who have often picked up the spoil
and claimed the victory, but it was Oldys who had fought the battle!

Oldys affords one more example how life is often closed amidst discoveries and acquisitions.
The literary antiquary, when he has attempted to embody his multiplied inquiries, and to finish
his scattered designs, has found that the LABOR ABSQUE LABORE, "the labour void of labour,"
as the inscription on the library of Florence finely describes the researches of literature,
has dissolved his days in the voluptuousness of his curiosity; and that too often, like the
hunter in the heat of the chase, while he disdained the prey which lay before him, he was still
stretching onwards to catch the fugitive!

  Transvolat in medio posita, et fugientia captat.

At the close of every century, in this growing world of books, may an Oldys be the reader for
the nation! Should he be endowed with a philosophical spirit, and combine the genius of his
own times with that of the preceding, he will hold in his hand the chain of human thoughts,
and, like another Bayle, become the historian of the human mind!

FOOTNOTES:

  [338] His intention was to publish a general classified biography of
    all the Italian authors.

  [339] He says in his advertisement, "It will be difficult to ascertain
    whether he meant to give them to the public, or only to reserve them
    for his own amusement and the entertainment of his friends." Many of
    these anecdotes are evidently mere loose scandal.

  [341] Mr. John Taylor, the son of Oldys's intimate friend, has
    furnished me with this interesting anecdote. "Oldys, as my father
    informed me, was many years in quiet obscurity in the Fleet prison,
    but at last was spirited up to make his situation known to the Duke
    of Norfolk of that time, who received Oldys's letter while he was at
    dinner with some friends. The duke immediately communicated the
    contents to the company, observing that he had long been anxious to
    know what had become of an old, though an humble friend, and was
    happy by that letter to find that he was alive. He then called for
    his gentleman (a kind of humble friend whom noblemen used to
    retain under that name in those days), and desired him to go
    immediately to the Fleet, to take money for the immediate need of
    Oldys, to procure an account of his debts, and discharge them. Oldys
    was soon after, either by the duke's gift or interest, appointed
    Norroy King of Arms; and I remember that his official regalia came
    into my father's hands at his death."

    In the "Life of Oldys," by Mr. A. Chalmers, the date of this
    promotion is not found. My accomplished friend, the Rev. J.
    Dallaway, has obligingly examined the records of the college, by
    which it appears that Oldys had been Norfolk herald extraordinary,
    but not belonging to the college, was appointed per saltum Norroy
    King of Arms by patent, May 5th, 1755.

  [342] The beautiful simplicity of this Anacreontic has met the
    unusual fate of entirely losing its character, by an additional and
    incongruous stanza in the modern editions, by a gentleman who has
    put into practice the unallowable liberty of altering the poetical
    and dramatic compositions of acknowledged genius to his own notion
    of what he deems "morality;" but in works of genius whatever is dull
    ceases to be moral.

  [344] We have been taught to enjoy the two ages of Genius and of
    Taste. The literary public are deeply indebted to the editorial
    care, the taste, and the enthusiasm of Mr. Singer, for exquisite
    reprints of some valuable writers.

  [345] Gibbon once meditated a life of Rawleigh, and for that purpose
    began some researches in that "memorable era of our English annals."
    After reading Oldys's, he relinquished his design, from a conviction
    that "he could add nothing new to the subject, except the uncertain
    merit of style and sentiment."

  [346] The British Museum is extremely deficient in our National
    Literature. The gift of George the Third's library has, however,
    probably supplied many deficiencies.

  [348] At the Bodleian Library, I learnt by a letter with which I am
    favoured by the Rev. Dr. Bliss, that there is an interleaved
    "Gildon's Lives and Characters of the Dramatic Poets," with
    corrections, which once belonged to Coxeter, who appears to have
    intended a new edition. Whether Coxeter transcribed into his Gildon
    the notes of Oldys's first "Langbaine," is worth inquiry.
    Coxeter's conduct, though he had purchased Oldys's first
    "Langbaine," was that of an ungenerous miser, who will quarrel with
    a brother rather than share in any acquisition he can get into his
    own hands. To Coxeter we also owe much; he suggested Dodsley's
    Collection of Old Plays, and the first tolerable edition of
    Massinger.

    Oldys could not have been employed in Lord Oxford's library, as Mr.
    Chalmers conjectures, about 1726; for here he mentions that he was
    in Yorkshire from 1724 to 1730. This period is a remarkable blank
    in Oldys's life. My learned friend, the Rev. Joseph Hunter, has
    supplied me with a note in the copy of Fuller in the Malone
    collection preserved at the Bodleian. Those years were passed
    apparently in the household of the first Earl of Malton, who built
    Wentworth House. There all the collections of the antiquary
    Gascoigne, with "seven great chests of manuscripts," some as ancient
    as the time of the Conquest, were condemned in one solemn sacrifice
    to Vulcan; the ruthless earl being impenetrable to the prayers and
    remonstrances of our votary to English History. Oldys left the earl
    with little satisfaction, as appears by some severe strictures from
    his gentle pen.

  [349] This copy was lent by Dr. Birch to the late Bishop of Dromore,
    who with his own hand carefully transcribed the notes into an
    interleaved copy of "Langbaine," divided into four volumes, which,
    as I am informed, narrowly escaped the flames, and was injured by
    the water, at a fire at Northumberland House. His lordship, when he
    went to Ireland, left this copy with Mr. Nichols, for the use of the
    projected editions of the Tatler, the Spectator, and the
    Guardian, with notes and illustrations; of which I think the
    Tatler only has appeared, and to which his lordship contributed
    some valuable communications.

  [350] I know that not only this lot of Oldys's manuscripts, but a
    great quantity of original contributions of whole lives, intended
    for the "Biographia Britannica," must lie together, unless they have
    been destroyed as waste paper. These biographical and literary
    curiosities were often supplied by the families or friends of
    eminent persons. Some may, perhaps, have been reclaimed by their
    owners. I am informed there was among them an interesting collection
    of the correspondence of Locke; and I could mention several lives
    which were prepared.

  [351] This collection, and probably the other letters, have come
    down to us, no doubt, with the manuscripts of this collector,
    purchased for the British Museum. The correspondence of Dr.
    Davenant, the political writer, with his son, the envoy, turns on
    one perpetual topic, his son's and his own advancement in the state.

  [352] It is a stout octavo volume of 400 pages, containing a good
    selection of specimens from the earliest era, concluding with Sam.
    Daniel, in the reign of James I. Mrs. Elizabeth Cooper was the wife
    of an auctioneer, who had been a chum of Oldys's in the Fleet
    Prison, where he died a debtor; and it was to aid his widow that
    Oldys edited this book.

  [353] William Thompson, the poet of "Sickness," and other poems; a
    warm lover of our elder bards, and no vulgar imitator of Spenser. He
    was the revivor of Bishop Hall's Satires, in 1753, by an edition
    which had been more fortunate if conducted by his friend Oldys, for
    the text is unfaithful, though the edition followed was one borrowed
    from Lord Oxford's library, probably by the aid of Oldys.

  [354] Malone's Life of Dryden, p. 420.

  [355] This is one of Oldys's Manuscripts; a thick folio of titles,
    which has been made to do its duty, with small thanks from those who
    did not care to praise the service which they derived from it. It
    passed from Dr. Berkenhout to George Steevens, who lent it to Gough.
    It was sold for five guineas. The useful work of ten years of
    attention given to it! The antiquary Gough alludes to it with his
    usual discernment. "Among these titles of books and pamphlets about
    London are many purely historical, and many of too low a kind to
    rank under the head of topography and history." Thus the design of
    Oldys, in forming this elaborate collection, is condemned by trying
    it by the limited object of the topographer's view. This catalogue
    remains a desideratum, were it printed entire as collected by Oldys,
    not merely for the topography of the metropolis, but for its
    relation to its manners, domestic annals, events, and persons
    connected with its history.

INDEX.

  ABELARD, ranks among the heretics, i. 145; book condemned as his
    written by another, ib.; absolution granted to, 146; wrote and
    sung finely, 147; raises the school of the Paraclete, ib.

  ABRAM-MEN, ii. 312, and note, ib.

  ABRIDGERS, objections to, and recommendations of, i. 397; Bayle's
    advice to, 398; now slightly regarded, 399; instructions to, quoted
    from the Book of Maccabees, ib.

  ABSENCE of mind, anecdotes of, i. 206.

  ABSOLUTE monarchy, search for precedents to maintain, iii. 510,
    note.

  ABSTRACTION of mind, instances of, amongst great men, ii. 59-60;
    sonnet on, by Metastasio, 61.

  ACADEMY, the French, some account of, i. 413-417; visit of Christina
    Queen of Sweden to, 414; of Literature, designed in the reign of
    Queen Anne, ii. 407; abortive attempts to establish various, ib.;
    disadvantages of, ib.; arguments of the advocates for, ib.; should
    be designed by individuals, 408; French origin of, 408-410; origin
    of the Royal Society, 410-412; ridiculous titles of Italian, 479;
    some account of the Arcadian, and its service to literature, 482;
    derivation of its title, ib.; of the Colombaria, 483; indications
    of, in England, 484; early rise of among the Italians, 485;
    establishment of the "Academy," 486; suppressed, and its members
    persecuted, ib.; of the "Oziosi," 488; suppression of many, at
    Florence and Sienna, ib.; considerations of the reason of the
    Italian fantastical titles of, &c., 489.

  ACAJOU and Zirphile, a whimsical fairy tale, ii. 308-311.

  ACCADEMIA of Bologna originated with Lodovico Caracci, ii. 399.

  ACCIDENT, instances of the pursuits of great men directed by, i. 85.

  ACEPHALI, iii. 193, and note, ib.

  ACHES, formerly a dissyllable; examples from Swift, Hudibras, and
    Shakespeare; John Kemble's use of the word, i. 81, note.

  ACROSTICS, i. 295-296.

  ACTORS, tragic, i. 248; who have died martyrs to their tragic
    characters, 249; should be nursed in the laps of queens, 250;
    anecdotes of, 250-251.

  ADDISON, silent among strangers, i. 104.

  ADRIANI, his continuation of Guicciardini's History, iii. 180.

  ADVICE, good, of a literary sinner, i. 350.

  AGATES, presenting representations of natural forms, i. 244.

  AGOBARD, Archbishop of Lyons, i. 21, and note.

  AGREDA, Maria, wrote the Life of the Virgin Mary, i. 367.

  ALBERICO, vision of, ii. 422.

  ALBERTUS MAGNUS, his opinion concerning books of magic, iii. 281;
    his brazen man, 282; his entertainment of the Earl of Holland, 290.

  ALCHYMISTS, results of their operations, iii. 284; their cautious
    secresy, 285; discoveries by, ib.

  ALCHYMY, anecdotes of professors of, i. 283-284; Henry VI.
    endeavoured to recruit his coffers by, 284; professors of, called
    multipliers, 285; books of, pious frauds, ib.; Elias Ashmole rather
    the historian of, than an adept in, 286; opinions of modern chemists
    on, 287.

  ALEXANDRIA, library of, i. 1; Demetrius Phalereus, its industrious
    and skilful librarian, ib.; original manuscripts of Æschylus,
    Sophocles,  and Euripides procured for, ib.: destruction of, 47-57.

  AMBASSADORS, anecdotes of frivolous points of etiquette insisted on
    by, ii. 195-206.

  AMICABLE ceremonies in various nations, ii. 12.

  AMILCAR, the author of the Second Punic War, iii. 143.

  AMPHIGOURIES, i. 298.

  AMUSEMENT, periodical, during study, a standing rule among the
    Jesuits, i. 31; various, practised by different celebrated men,
    38-41.

  ANAGRAMS, i. 298, ii. 229; are classed among the Hebrews with the
    cabalistic sciences, 230; Platonic notions of, ib.; specimens of
    Greek, ib.; several examples of curious, 231-233; amusing anecdotes
    concerning, 234.

  ANCILLON and his library, i. 10, and note.

  ANDREINI, an actor and author of irregular Italian comedies, ii.
    141; a drama of his gave the first idea to Milton of his "Paradise
    Lost," ib.

  ANECDOTES of European Manners, ii. 30-39; of Abstraction of Mind,
    59-62; literary, their importance, 300; Dr. Johnson's defence of,
    301; the absurdity of many transmitted by biographers, ib.; general
    remarks on, 303.

  ANGLESEA, Earl of, his MSS. suppressed, ii. 447.

  ANIMALS, influence of music on, i. 272-4.

  ANNIUS of Viterbo published seventeen books of pretended
    antiquities, iii. 305; and afterwards a commentary, ib.; caused a
    literary war, 306.

  ANTEDILUVIAN researches, i. 301-303.

  ANTI, a favourite prefix to books of controversy, i. 318.

  ANTIQUARIES, Society of, inquiry into its origin and progress, ii.
    413-415.

  ANTONY, Marc, anecdote of, ii. 10.

  APPAREL, excess in, proclamation against, by Elizabeth, iii. 375.

  APPLES grafted on mulberry stocks, ii. 157, note.

  ARCHESTRATUS, a celebrated culinary philosopher, ii. 246.

  ARGUMENTS, invented by a machine, ii. 419.

  ARIOSTO, his merits disputed in Italy, i. 386; public preference
    given to, by the Accademia della Crusca, 387; his verses sung by the
    gondoliers, 388.

  ARISTOCRAT, a nick-name, iii. 83.

  ARISTOTLE, account of criticisms on, i. 25; fate of his library, 53;
    Arabic commentaries on, 61; rage for, ib.; his opinions on sneezing,
    127; letter of Philip of Macedon to, 142; description of the person
    and manners of, ib.; will of, 143; studied under Plato, ib.;
    parallel between him and Plato, by Rapin, ib.; anecdote concerning
    him and Plato, 144; raises a school, ib.; attacked by Xenocrates,
    ib.; his mode of pointing out a successor, 145; writers against and
    for, 314; bon-mot on his precepts, 407.

  ARMSTRONG, Archibald, jester to Charles I., ii. 236, note.

  ARNAULD, one of the most illustrious members of the Port Royal
    Society, i. 94; anecdotes of, 96; was still the great Arnauld at the
    age of eighty-two, 97.

  ASHMOLE, Elias, his Theatrum Chemicum Britannicum, i. 286; his
    Diary, ii. 209; his superstition, ib., note.

  ASTRÆA, D'Urfé's romance of the, i. 451; sketch of, 452-454.

  ASTROLOGERS, faith in, by celebrated characters, i. 278; Lilly
    consulted by Charles I., ib.; Nostrodamus, by Catherine de Medici,
    279; several have suffered death to verify their skill, ib.; shifts
    and impostures of, 279-280.

  ASTROLOGY, greatly flourished in the time of the Civil Wars, i. 280;
    attacks on and defences of, 281-282.

  ATELLANÆ Fabulæ, Atellan farces, ii. 131, and note, 132.

  ATTICUS, employed to collect for Cicero, ii. 397; traded in books
    and gladiators, 398.

  AUBREY, John, extract from his correspondence, iii. 294; his search
    after gold, ib.; his idea of universal education, 296.

  AUDLEY, a lawyer and usurer, ii. 158; his commencement of life, and
    means of rising in, 159; anecdote of him and a draper, 161; his
    maxims of political economy,  162; his reply to a borrowing lord,
    ib.; his manners and opinions, 168-170; his death and general
    character, 170.

  AUTOGRAPHS, indications of character, iii. 163; of English
    sovereigns, 165-166.

  BABINGTON'S conspiracy, some account of its progress, and of the
    noble youths concerned in it, ii. 171; trial and defences of the
    conspirators, 173; their execution, 175-176.

  BACCHUS, ancient descriptions of, and modern translations of them,
    ii. 292.

  BACON, Lord, sketch of his life as a philosopher, iii. 320-326; more
    valued abroad than at home, 327.

  BAKER, Sir Richard, author of the "Chronicle," died in the Fleet,
    ii. 452; his papers burnt, ib.

  BALES, Peter, a celebrated caligrapher, i. 275; iii. 173-177.

  BALLARD, the Jesuit, concerned in Babington's conspiracy, ii. 172;
    expression of his on his trial, 173.

  BAPTISTA PORTA, founded the Accademie of the Oziosi and Segreti,
    iii. 290; considered himself a prognosticator, ib.; his magical
    devices, ib.

  BARBIER, Louis, anecdote relating to, ii. 11; his superstitious
    observances, ib., note.

  BARNARD, Dr., his "Life of Heylin," iii. 217-221.

  BARTHIUS, Gaspar, a voluminous author, ii. 536; an infant prodigy,
    ib.; published a long list of unprinted works, 537; its fate, ib.

  BASNAGE, his Dictionary, iii. 233.

  BAYLE, publishes his Nouvelles de la République des Lettres, i.
    14; account of his death, 391; his conduct to his friend, 392; read
    much by his fingers, ib.; amusements of, ib.; anecdotes relating to,
    393; his "Critical Dictionary," remarks on its character, ii.
    382-388; Gibbon's remarks on, 385; publication of, ib.; his
    originality, how obtained, 386; his errors, 388; his personal
    traits, 389; his characteristics, 388-396; changes his religion
    twice, 390; extract from his diary, ib.; his methods of study, 391;
    appointed to a professorship, ib.; deprived of it, ib.; laments his
    want of books, 392; anecdotes of  the effects of his works, 394; a
    model of a literary character, 395.

  BEAM in the eye of the Pharisee, literally represented in early art,
    i. 307, and note.

  BEARDS, various fashions in, i. 220.

  BEAUSSOL, M. Peyraud de, his preface to his condemned tragedy, ii.
    304-307.

  BEN JONSON, masques by, iii. 12; assisted Rawleigh in his history of
    the world, 131, and note.

  BENEVOLENCES, iii. 218, 219.

  BENTLEY, notice of his criticisms on Milton, i. 370-373.

  BETHLEHEM Hospital, its original foundation, ii. 311, and note.

  BETTERTON, anecdote of, i. 250.

  BEZA, Theodore, an imitator of Calvin in abuse, i. 310; effect of
    his work against toleration, iii. 245.

  BIBLE, the prohibition of, ii. 19; various versions of, 20-23; a
    family one, 22; the Olivetan, iii. 155; corrupt state of the
    English, formerly, 427; printing of, an article of open trade, 428;
    shameful practices in the printing of, 428-431, and note; privilege
    of printing granted to one Bentley, 430; Field's Pearl Bible
    contained 6000 faults, 431; division of, into chapter and verse,
    432.

  BIBLIOMANE, iii. 343.

  BIBLIOMANIA, i. 9.

  BIBLIOGNOSTE, iii. 343.

  BIBLIOGRAPHE, iii. 343.

  BIBLIOGRAPHY, remarks on its importance, iii. 341.

  BIBLIOPHILE, iii. 343.

  BIBLIOTAPHE, iii. 343.

  BIOGRAPHICAL parallels, iii. 425; a book of, proposed by Hurd, ib.;
    between Budæus and Erasmus, 426; instances of several, 427.

  BIOGRAPHY, painted, a, iii. 137-141; remarks on, 414; sentimental,
    distinguished from chronological, ib.; of Dante, by Boccacio and
    Aretino, 415-419; domestic, 420-423; customary among the Romans,
    424; comparative, a series of, projected by Elizabeth Hamilton, ib.

  BIRCH, Dr., his great services to history, iii. 383.

  BIRKENHEAD, Sir John, a newspaper writer and pamphleteer during the
    great rebellion, i. 159.

  BLACK Cloaks, a political nickname for a party in Naples, iii. 82.

  BLENHEIM, secret history of the building of, iii. 102-111; drawn
    from MSS., 103, note.

  BONAVENTURE DE PERRIERS, specimen of his stories, i. 128.

  BOOK of Sports, effect of, ii. 148.

  BOOKS, collections of, see LIBRARIES; collectors of, see COLLECTORS;
    reviews of, and criticisms on, see LITERARY JOURNALS and SKETCHES OF
    CRITICISM; destruction of, see TITLE; lost, i. 47-57; prices of, in
    early times, 76; treatise on the art of reading printed, 78; curious
    advertisements of, 157; titles of, 288; various opinions as to the
    size of, 347; difficulties encountered in publishing many books of
    merit, 375; works of another description better remunerated, 377;
    leaves of, origin of their name, ii. 23, note; table-books, 26;
    derivation of the name "book," 28; description of the form and
    condition of ancient, ib.; censors and licensers of, 216; catalogue
    of, condemned at the Council of Trent, ib.; inquisitors of, ib.; see
    INDEX; burning of, anecdote of its good effect in promoting their
    sale, 219; mutilations caused by the censors in Camden's works, Lord
    Herbert's History of Henry VIII., and the Poems of Lord Brooke, 220;
    anecdotes of purloiners of, iii. 316-319; predilection of celebrated
    men to particular, iii. 340-343; calculations as to their present
    number, 342; different terms for amateurs of, 343; which have been
    designed but not completed, 493, 494.

  BOOKSELLERS, two ruined by one author, ii. 533.

  BORROWERS, destructive to collections of books, i. 12.

  BOTANIC GARDEN, Darwin's remarks on, i. 341.

  BOURDALOUE, i. 257.

  BOURGEOIS, Père, one of the Chinese missionaries, account of his
    attempt at preaching in Chinese, i. 268.

  BOUTS RIMES, i. 296.

  BRANDT, Ship of Fools, i. 7.

  BRIDGEWATER, late Duke of, destroyed many family MSS., ii. 451.

  BUCKINGHAM, Duke of, his familiarity and coarseness with James I.,
    i. 463, note; his conduct in Spain, ii. 4; equally a favourite with
     James I. and Charles I., 5; Hume's character of, ib. and 355;
    anecdote of him and the Queen of France, 6; his audacity and
    "English familiarity," ib.; anecdote of him and Prince Charles, 7;
    his rise, 10; his magnificent entertainment of Charles I. and the
    French ambassador, 327; his character, 356-358, and notes; his fears
    of being supplanted, 357, note; contrast between him and Richelieu,
    358; secret history of his expedition to Spain with Prince Charles,
    359; prognostics of his death, 364; portrait of, 366, note;
    determined to succour Rochelle, 367; his death, 371; satires on,
    369, 370; possessed the esteem of Charles I., ib.; his extravagance
    in dress, iii. 407; intrigued with the Puritans, 443; his
    intercourse with Dr. Preston, a Puritan, 444; discovers Preston's
    insincerity, and abandons the Puritans, 445; his impeachment, 452;
    his failure at the Isle of Rhé, 458; offers to resign his offices,
    469; hatred of, by the parliament, 470-474.

  BUFFON, Vicq d'Azyr's description of his study, iii. 208.

  BUILDINGS in the metropolis, opposition to, from the days of
    Elizabeth to those of Charles II., iii. 363; statutes against, 364;
    proclamations against, 365.

  BURNET, his book against Varillas, i. 132, and note.

  BURYING grounds, iii. 231.

  BUTLER, the author of "Hudibras," vindicated, ii. 491-495.

  CADIZ, expedition to, in the time of Charles I., ii. 366; satirical
    lines on, 367.

  CALAMY, his "History of the Ejected Ministers," iii. 240.

  CALUMNY, political advantages of, iii. 81.

  CALVIN, less tolerant than Luther in controversy, i. 309.

  CAMUS, his "Médecine de l'Esprit," ii. 469.

  CARACCI, family of the, ii. 399; Lodovico, character of, ib.; the
    school of the, 401, note; Agostino and Annibale, their opposite
    characters, 402; the three opened a school in their own house, 403;
    Agostino's eminence there, ib.; his sonnet, comprising the laws of
    painting,  404; Domenichino, Albano, Guido, Guercino, their pupils,
    405; disputes between Annibale and Agostino, ib.; their separation,
    406.

  CARDINAL RICHELIEU, anecdotes of, and considerations on his
    character, i. 139-142.

  CARLETON, Sir Dudley, Vice-Chamberlain of Charles I., his speech to
    the Commons on the imprisonment of two of their members for their
    impeachment of Buckingham, iii. 455.

  CARTOONS of Raphael, now at Hampton Court, offered for sale, and
    bought by Cromwell, ii. 333; nearly sold to France by Charles II.,
    ib., note; the gallery for their reception built by William III.,
    ib.

  CATHERINE DE' MEDICI, her belief in astrology, iii. 347; employs
    Montluc to intrigue to secure the election of the Duke of Anjou to
    the crown of Poland, 349.

  CATHARINOT, a voluminous writer, ii. 545; his singular mode of
    publishing his unsaleable works, 546.

  CAUSE and Pretext, distinction between, to be observed by
    historians, iii. 141; anecdotal illustrations, 142-144.

  CAXTON, the printer, his earliest works, i. 75, note.

  CAYET, Dr., his "Chronologie Novenaire," ii. 7.

  CENSERS used to sweeten houses in the reign of Elizabeth, ii. 38,
    note.

  CENSORS of books, designed to counteract the press, ii. 216;
    originated with the Inquisition, ib.; appointed with the title of
    Inquisitors of Books, ib.; disagreement among these Inquisitors,
    217; in Spain, 218; their treatment of commentators on the "Lusiad,"
    ib.; instances of the injury done to English literature by the
    appointment of, 220; never recognised by English law, 221; regularly
    established under Charles I., 223; office of, maintained by the
    Puritans, ib.; treatment of Milton by, ib.; the office lay dormant
    under Cromwell, 224; revived and continued under Charles II. and
    James II., ib.; anecdotes relative to, 226-228.

  CENTOS, i. 299.

  CEREMONIES, different, among various nations, ii. 12-15.

  CERVANTES, remark of i. 394; taken prisoner at the battle of Lepanto,
    ib.

  CHAMILLART, Minister of France, his rise, ii, 11.

  CHARADES, i. 297.

  CHARLES MARTEL, his combat with, and defeat of, the Mahometans, ii.
    430.

  CHARLES the Bald of France, his remarkable vision, ii. 423.

  CHARLES the First, account of his expedition into Spain, ii. 1-4;
    anecdote of him and Buckingham, 6; history of his diamond seal, 326;
    his love of the fine arts, 327; the magnificence and taste of his
    court entertainments, 328; anecdote of, 329; catalogue of his
    effects, 331-334; an artist and a poet, 334, 335, and note;
    influence of his wife on, doubted, 336; his dismissal of his wife's
    French establishment, 345; reply to the French ambassador's
    remonstrances, 347; his conduct on the death of Buckingham, 371;
    secret history of him and his first Parliaments, iii. 448; the
    latter a sullen bride, ib.; his address to his first Parliament, and
    their ungracious conduct, 449; they abandoned the king, 450; raises
    money on Privy Seals, ib.; on the failure of the expedition to Cadiz
    he called his second Parliament, 451; communications between him and
    his Parliament, ib.; his address to them, noticing the impeachment
    of Buckingham, 452; his conduct on that occasion the beginning of
    his troubles, 453; on the Commons' further remonstrance against
    Buckingham, he dissolves his second Parliament, 457; his distress
    for money, ib.; his fresh distresses on the failure of the
    expedition to the Isle of Rhé, and his expedients to raise money,
    458, 459; their ill success, 460, 461; reflections on his situation,
    463; rejects the proffered advice of the President of the
    Rosy-Cross, 464; anonymous letter sent to the Commons, and by them
    forwarded to the king without perusing, 465; secret measures used by
    the opposition, 466; speech of the king to Parliament, 467; his
    emotion on being informed that the Parliament had granted subsidies
     468; debates on the king's message, 469; Eliot's speech thereon,
    470; Coke's memorable speech, 473; the king grants his assent to the
    Petition of Right, 475; popular rejoicings, 476; presentation of the
    Remonstrance, ib.; the king's conduct after the assassination of
    Buckingham, 477; vow of the Parliament to maintain the Articles of
    Religion of the 13th Eliz., 478; tumult in the House, and
    dissolution of the Parliament, 480.

  CHARLES the Fifth, his edicts against the Reformed religion, iii.
    242; his conduct influenced by political, not religious motives,
    243.

  CHARLES the Ninth, account of the death of, ii. 7-9; his apology for
    the massacre of St. Bartholomew, iii. 255-259; his character, 260.

  CHERRIES, introduction of, into Great Britain, ii. 156; loss and
    reintroduction of, in the reign of Henry VIII., ib.

  CHESS, clergymen prohibited from playing, ii. 32; Kempelen's
    Mechanical Chess-player, iii. 284, note.

  CHINESE language, i. 267; difficulties of, experienced by P. Bourgeois,
    268.

  CHOCOLATE, brought from Mexico by the Spaniards, ii. 325; treatise
    against the use of, ib.; chocolate-houses in London, ib.

  CHRISTMAS Prince at the Universities, ii. 268; account of one at
    Oxford, 1607, ib., note.

  CHRISTODINS, iii. 81.

  CHRONOGRAMS, i. 295.

  CHURCHILL abhorred the correction of his MSS., ii. 85.

  CICERO a punster, i. 69; a manufacturer of prefaces, 71; a
    collector, ii. 396; his projected library, ib.; employs Atticus to
    procure books and statues, 397; discovered the tomb of Archimedes,
    iii. 409.

  CITIES, Free, shook off the yoke of feudal tyranny, i. 184.

  CLAIRON, Mademoiselle, anecdote of, i. 251.

  CLARENDON House, history of its erection, iii. 189-191; popularly
    called Dunkirk House, or Tangier Hall, 189; satire on the building
    of, 190; existing remains of, 191, note.

  CLASSICAL learning, ii. 332.

  CLOVIS, his reasons for adopting Christianity, ii. 433, 434, and
    note.

  COACHES, introduction of, into England, ii. 36; use of, in France, ib.

  COCKERAM, H., his English Dictionary and its new words, iii. 24.

  COCK-FIGHTING in Ceylon, i. 188.

  COFFEE, introduction of, into Europe, ii, 320; made fashionable at
    Paris by the Turkish ambassador, 321; invectives and poetical
    satires against, 322-324; advantages of its use, 325.

  COFFEE-HOUSES, the first opened at Paris, ii. 321; improvements in,
    ib.; the first in England, 322; shut up by proclamation, ib.; and
    iii. 379, note.

  COKE, or Cook, Sir Edward, his most pleasing book, his Manual, or
    Vade Mecum, ii. 519; his MSS. seized on his death, ib.; yet to be
    recovered, ib., note; his character, 520; his matrimonial alliances,
    ib.; his disgrace, 521; disputes between him and his wife, Lady
    Hatton, concerning the marriage of his daughter, 523; curious letter
    of advice to Lady Hatton, for her defence before the Council, 524;
    his daughter married to Lord Villiers, and Coke reinstated, 529; his
    daughter's bad conduct, ib.; his death, 530; his vituperative style,
    ib.; his conduct to Rawleigh, 531; his abjectness in disgrace, 532;
    pricked as sheriff, to exclude him from Parliament, iii. 446; eludes
    the appointment by excepting to the oath, 448.

  COKE, Mr. Clement, a violent opposition leader in the second
    Parliament of Charles I., iii. 498, 499.

  COLERIDGE, method pursued by him in his remarkable political
    predictions, iii. 268.

  COLLECTIONS of books, see LIBRARIES; of engravings, see ENGRAVINGS.

  COLLECTOR of books, i. 1-8; defence of himself, as one of the body,
    by Ancillon, 10; Aristotle first saluted as a, 53.

  COLLECTORS, their propensity to plunder, iii. 316-319.

  COLLINS, Anthony, a great lover of books, iii. 16; a free-thinker,
    ib.; the friend of Locke, 18; fate of his MSS., 19-23.

  COMEDIES, extemporal, ii. 130; opinion of northern critics on, 131;
    the amusement of Italy, ib.; practised by the Romans, ib.; Salvator
    Rosa's prologue to one, 133; opinions and descriptions of, by
    Riccoboni and Gherardi, 134, 135; anecdote of the excellence of,
    137; when first introduced in England, 138.

  COMFITS universally used under Henry III. of France, i. 221.

  COMINES, notice of, i. 263.

  COMPOSITION, various modes of literary, ii. 85; correction in,
    necessary, ib.; but by some authors impossible, ib.; illustrative
    anecdotes, 86; use of models in, 88; various modes of, used by
    celebrated authors, 90-92; passion for, exhibited by some authors,
    533-546.

  CONDE, great Prince of, expert in physiognomy, i. 150.

  CONFRERES de la Passion, i. 353.

  CONFUSION of words by writers, iii. 65; by the Nominalists and
    Realists, 66; in modern philosophy, ib.; between the Antinomians and
    their opposers, and the Jansenists and Jesuits, 68; between Abelard
    and St. Bernard, ib; other instances, 69; in jurisprudence and
    politics, 70; historical instances, 71-73; arising from a change of
    meaning in the course of time, 74; serious consequences of, 77;
    among political economists, 78; illustrative anecdote of Caramuel, a
    Spanish bishop, 79.

  CONSTANTINE, motives of his acknowledgment of Christianity, ii. 433.

  CONTROVERSIAL writings, acrimony infused into by scholars, i. 153,
    and 317.

  CONTROVERSY, literary, that of the Nominalists and Realists, i. 312;
    between Benedetto Aletino and Constantino Grimaldi, 314; abuse
    lavished on each other by learned men in, 308-320; challenges sent
    on occasion of, 317.

  COOKERY and cooks of the ancients, ii. 245; Epic composed in praise
    of, 246; illustrative translations from Athenæus,247-252; the
    dexterity of the cooks, 253; writers on, 254; anecdotes, 255.

  CORNEILLE, Peter, died in poverty, i. 32; deficient in conversation,
    104; sketch of his life, 428-432.

  CORNEILLE, Thomas, impromptu written under his portrait, i. 432.

  CORNELIUS AGRIPPA, accused of magic, i. 27; his dog supposed to be a
    demon, 28; his belief in demons, iii. 282.

  CORNHERT, Theodore, a great advocate for toleration, iii. 253, and
    note.

  CORPUS CHRISTI plays at Chester, i. 353; at Kendal, iii. 442, and
    note.

  COSMETICS, use of, by the ladies of the Elizabethan age, i. 227.

  COTTON, Sir Robert, his manuscript collections, iii. 316; his
    character of Charles I., 456, 457.

  COUNTRY gentlemen, their former habits commended, ii. 214; Lord
    Clarendon's mention of his grandfather's conduct as one of the body,
    ib.; their conduct created a national character, ib.

  COUNTRY residence, opinion of Justice Best upon, iii. 363; James I.
    recommendation of, 364; proclamations to compel a, ib.; and
    proceedings in the Star Chamber against the disobedient, 365-368;
    Ode upon, by Sir Richard Fanshaw, 369.

  COURT of Wards and Liveries, ii. 158, note.

  CRANMER, Jansenist character of, i. 373.

  CREATION of the World, precise date of, i. 303.

  CREBILLON, his creditors attached the proceeds of his tragedy of
    Catiline, i. 405; decree of Louis XV. thereupon, 406.

  CRITICS may possess the art of judging without the power of
    execution, i. 407; Abbé d'Aubignac and Chapelaine quoted as
    instances, ib.

  CRITICISM, Periodical, see LITERARY JOURNALS, i. 12-17; sketches of
    amongst the ancients, 24-27; effect of, upon authors, 409.

  CROMWELL, his great political error, ii. 435; prediction of his
    future eminence, iii. 269; reasons for his delay in naming a
    successor, 328, 329.

  CRUIKSHANK, George, curious error concerning, i. 321, note.

  CYRE, the Abbé, an envoy of the Emperor's in Poland, iii. 350;
    seized and imprisoned, 360.

  D'AGUESSEAU, the Chancellor, his  advice to his son on the study of
    history, iii. 179.

  DANCE of Death, iii. 211-215.

  DANTE, origin of his Inferno, disputes on, ii. 421; the entire work
    Gothic, ib.; Vision of Alberico supposed to be borrowed, 422; and
    probably read by Dante, ib.; his originality vindicated, 423; the
    true origin of the Inferno, 427, and note.

  DAY-FATALITY, i. 279; lucky and unlucky days, ib., note.

  DEATH, anecdotes relating to the death of many distinguished
    persons, i. 417-421; book containing the accounts of the deaths of
    remarkable persons, compiled by Montaigne, iii. 200; reflections on
    death, ib.; anecdotes of the death of some celebrated persons, 201,
    202; effect of the continual consideration of, 203; Lady Gethin's
    ideas on, 204; conversations of Johnson and Boswell on, ib.;
    singular preparations for, by Moncriff, 205; opinions of the
    ancients on, 207; personifications of, among the ancients, 208, and
    note; Gothic representations of, 209.

  DEDICATIONS, curious anecdotes concerning, i. 337-341; price for the
    dedication of a play, 338; one to himself, composed by a patron,
    ib.; practice of Elkanah Settle with regard to, 339; of the Polyglot
    Bible to Cromwell, ib.; altered at the Restoration, ib.; to Cardinal
    Richelieu, 340; Dryden's, ib.; ingenious one by Sir Simon Degge,
    341.

  DE FOE, his honour questioned as to the publication of Robinson
    Crusoe, ii. 274; probably struck by Steele's observations on
    Selkirk's narration, 276; wrote Robinson Crusoe in comparative
    solitude, ib.; vindication of his character, ib.

  DE LA CHAMBRE, secret correspondence of, with Louis XIV. on
    physiognomy, i. 148.

  DELIQUENTS, a convenient revolutionary phrase, iii. 86.

  DESCARES, persecuted for his opinions, i. 29; silent in mixed
    company, 104; his description of his life in Amsterdam, 113.

  DESCRIPTIONS, local, when prolonged tedious, iii. 1; Boileau's
    criticisms  on, 1, 2; inefficiency of, instanced by a passage from
    Pliny, 2; example of elegant, in a sonnet by Francesca de Castello,
    3.

  DESCRIPTIVE Poems, general remarks on, i. 341; race of, confined to
    one object, ib.; titles of, and notices on several of these, 342,
    343.

  DES MAIZEAUX, a French refugee, iii. 13; his Life of Bayle, 14;
    notices of his literary life, 15-18; Anthony Collins bequeaths his
    MSS. to, 19; relinquishes them to Collins's widow, 20;
    correspondence concerning, 19-22.

  DESMARETS, his comedy of the "Visionnaires," ii. 48.

  DE SERRES, introduced the cultivation of the mulberry tree and
    silk-worm into France, ii. 152; opposition to his schemes, ib.;
    supported by Henry IV., ib.; medal struck in honour of his memory,
    153.

  DESTRUCTION of books and MSS. by the monks, i. 18, 50; account of,
    at Constantinople, by the Christians, suppressed, 47; burning of
    Talmuds, 48; of Irish and Mexican, ib.; anecdotes regarding, 49; of
    Korans, ib.; of the classics, 50; of Bohemian, ib.; in England under
    Henry VIII., 51; at Stationers' Hall in 1599, 53; of many of Lady
    Mary Wortley Montague's letters, 54; of Anglo-Saxon MSS., 55;
    anecdotes concerning the, ib., note; by fire and shipwreck, 56, 57.

  D'EWES, Sir Symonds, a sober antiquary, but a visionary, iii. 433;
    extracts from his Diary, 434, 435.

  DIARY, of a Master of the Ceremonies, ii. 194-206; Shaftesbury's
    definition of a, ib.; Colonel Harwood's, 206; kept by Titus, ib.;
    Alfred's, 207; Prince Henry's, ib.; Edward VI.'s, ib.; kept by James
    II., 208; usually kept by heads of families, 209; kept by Swift and
    Horace Walpole, ib.; recommended by Sir Thomas Bodley to Sir Francis
    Bacon, ib.; Coke's, ib.; Camden's, 210; of Sir Symonds D'Ewes, ib.;
    Baxter's, 211; the thoughtful disposition giving rise to the keeping
    of a diary, partaken even by women, ib.; Whitelocke's, 212; Laud's,
    213; Lord Clarendon's, 214; practice of keeping one recommended,
    215.

  DIARIES, Religious, iii. 435.

  DICTIONARY of Trevoux, account of its origin and progress, iii. 229;
    of Basnage, 230; of Dr. Johnson, 233.

  DIGGES, Sir Dudley, a violent opposition leader in Charles I.'s
    second parliament, iii. 451; opened the impeachment of Buckingham,
    452; committed to the tower, 454.

  DILAPIDATIONS of MSS.--See MANUSCRIPTS.

  DINNER hour, variations of, in different times, ii. 34, 35.

  DINNER parties, Roman limitation of the number of guests at, ii.
    246.

  DISCOVERIES in literature and science, aptitude in, obtained
    by studious men, iii. 408; illustrative anecdotes, 409-413.

  DIVINITY, scholastic, i. 60, 61; curious accounts and specimens of,
    63-65.

  DODD'S Church History of England, iii. 239.

  DRAGONS, origin of the old stories of, ii. 311.

  DRAMA, anecdotes of the early, ii. 40-43; Mexican, ib.; account of a
    curious drama, entitled Technotamia, or the Marriage of the Arts,
    43-46; account of one written by a madman, 48.

  DRAMATIC works made the vehicle of political feeling, ii. 277; by
    the Catholics at the Reformation, ib.; such conduct caused a
    proclamation by Edward VI. against English interludes, &c., ib.;
    those on the side of the Reformation allowed, and specimens of one,
    279-281; proceedings against in the Star Chamber, ib.

  DRAMATIC Annals.--See DRAMATIC WORKS. Suppression of the drama
    during the civil wars of Charles I., ii. 281; opposite conduct of
    actors at that time, and at the period of the French revolution,
    282; writers against the stage, 283; custom of boys personating
    females, 284; introduction of actresses, 285; Histriomastix, ib.;
    all theatres suppressed in 1642, ib.; ordinance against theatres,
    286; plays enacted secretly during their suppression, ib.; Cox's
    "drolleries," 287; petitions against the drama, 289; the player's
    petition in favour of, ib.; secretly acted at Holland House,  291;
    the suppression of the drama caused the publication of many MS.
    plays, ib.

  DRESS, costliness of, in the reigns of Elizabeth, James I., and
    Charles I., iii. 405-408.

  DRINKING, hard, a borrowed custom among the English, ii. 293; learnt
    by them in the Netherlands, ib.; statutes against, ib., note; terms
    of, 294, note, 295-298; anecdotes of, 300.

  DRUNKARDS, their different characteristics, ii. 299; "A Delicate
    Diet for," ib., note; toasts of, 300, and note.

  DU CLOS, origin of his fairy tale of Acajou and Zirphile, and
    account of his satirical preface to it, ii. 308-310.

  DUTCH literature, remarks and strictures on, i. 403-405; satirical
    medals, iii. 156-160.

  ECHO verses, specimen of, ii. 236.

  ECLECTIC School of Art founded by the Caracci, ii. 401, note.

  EDWARD the Fourth, to what he owed his crown, i. 261.

  EGLISHAW, Dr., his political libels, ii. 357, note; is murdered in
    Holland, ib.

  ELIZABETH, queen, i. 264; her amours, 265; wished to be thought
    beautiful by all the world, ib.; her habits studious, but not of the
    gentlest kind, 266; her writing, 267; her education severely
    classical, ib.; various anecdotes concerning, 264-267; her able
    management of her parliaments, ii. 179-186; her conduct regarding
    the succession, iii. 328; her treatment of James I., 332; her
    proclamation against excess in apparel, 375.

  ELIOT, Sir John, a violent opposition leader in Charles I.'s second
    Parliament, iii. 452; his speech on the impeachment of Buckingham,
    453; committed to the Tower, 454; violent against Buckingham in
    Parliament, 469-471; his collection of satires against him, ib.; a
    leader in the last Parliament of Charles I., 474-479.

  ELOISA, solicited and obtained Abelard's absolution, i. 146; buried
    with Abelard, ib.; a fine lady, 147; Pope's reprehensible lines
    found in original letters of, 148.

  ENCHANTERS, origin of the old stories of, ii. 31.

  ENGLISH Poetry, scarcely known in France in 1610, iii. 233;
    ignorance of, displayed by Quadrio in his History of Poetry
    published in 1750, 236.

  ENGRAVING, early origin among the Egyptians, i. 43, note.

  ENGRAVINGS, first collection of, under Louis XIV., by Colbert, i. 7;
    collecting of engraved portraits originated the work of Granger, 45.

  EPITAPH on Cardinal Richelieu, by his protégé, Benserade, i. 84; by
    celebrated persons on themselves, 417; on Philip I., 471; on Butler,
    the author of Hudibras, ii. 548.

  ERRATA, remarkable anecdotes concerning, i, 78-82.

  ERRONEOUS proper names, given in foreign authors, i. 327, and note.

  ETIQUETTE, Court, reflections on its rise and progress, ii. 194;
    forms of, observed between the English ambassadors and Cardinal
    Richelieu, 195; creation of a master of the ceremonies, 196; absurd
    punctilios of, illustrated from the Diary of Sir John Finett,
    196-204.

  EVELYN, his mode of composition, ii. 88; praise due to him for his
    Sylva, 152; his design for arms of Royal Society, 411, and note.

  EVENTS which have not happened, ii. 428-438.

  EXCOMMUNICATION, by the Popes, dreadful consequences of, ii. 84.

  FAIRFAX Papers, curious discovery of, i. 24, note.

  FAIRFAX, Sir Thomas, anecdotes of him and his family, ii. 461-474.

  FAME, contemned, 66.

  FAMILIAR spirits, intercourse with, believed, i. 27, 28, 280.

  FANSHAW, Sir Richard, his Ode on the king's commanding the gentry to
    reside on their estates, iii. 369-371.

  FARCES, ancient, reprehensible, but their pleasantry and humour not
    contemptible, i. 358; customary among the Romans after a serious
    piece, ii. 131.

  FASHIONS.--See LITERARY FASHIONS. Anecdotes of their origin, changes
    and extravagances, i. 216-230; introduction of French, 227, 228;
    chronicled by Stowe, 225; French,  prevailed in the reign of
    Charles II., 228; notice of modern, 229; lines condemning the acts
    of, 230; expensive in the reigns of Henry VII. and VIII., ii. 36.

  FEAST of Fools, ii. 31.

  FEAST of Asses, ii. 31.

  FELTON, John, the assassin of the Duke of Buckingham, his motives
    for the act, ii. 371; his passage to London in triumph, 372; anagram
    on his name, 373; his remorse, ib.; his character, 374; his family,
    ib., and note; propositions found in his trunk, 375; history of the
    remarkable written paper found in his hat, ib., note; answer to a
    threat of torture, 376; poem addressed to, 378.

  FEMALE beauty and ornaments, opinions and practices of various
    nations concerning, i. 211.

  FENELON, Jansenist character of, i. 373; his admiration of Homer,
    iii. 339.

  FEUDAL customs and rights, the barbarous, the first attempts at
    organizing society, i. 183; servitude of the land, 184; maiden
    rights, ib.; wardship, 185; German lords privileged to rob on the
    highway, ib.; anecdote of Geoffrey, Lord of Coventry, ib.; anecdotes
    of the abuse of feudal rights and power, 186, 187.

  FILBERT, origin of the name, ii. 157, and note.

  FILCHERS, literary, iii. 316-319.

  FILICAJA, a sonnet of, iii. 197, translated, ib.

  FINETT, Sir John, master of the ceremonies to Charles I.--See
    ETIQUETTE.

  FIRE, in primæval ages, a signal of respect, ii. 16; worshipped as a
    divinity, ib.; a symbol of majesty, ib.; ancient observances
    regarding, ib.

  FIRE-WORKS, not known to antiquity, ii. 15; their epoch, 17;
    originated with the Florentines and Siennese, ib.; their use passes
    to Rome, ib.; exhibition of at Paris, 18.

  FLAP-DRAGONS, ii. 298.

  FLEA, collection of poems on, i. 304.

  FLORAL gifts, withheld by the Capitouls of Toulouse from Maynard, a
    French poet, i. 437.

  FLOGGING, a discussion on, occasioned  Roger Ascham to write his
    Schoolmaster, i. 87.

  FLOWERS and Fruits, praise of the introducers of exotic, ii. 151;
    Peirese and Evelyn, ib.; Hartlib, 153; enthusiasm evinced by the
    transplanters of, ib.; notice of many introduced by particular
    persons, 154; origin of, distinguished by their names, 155; worthy
    pride of introducers of, 156, 157.

  FORGERIES and fictions, political and religious, iii. 144;
    historical instances, 145-150; literary, iii. 304-319.

  FORMOSA, Psalmanazar's pretended history of, i. 136, note.

  FOSCOLO, Ugo, his opinion on the titles of Italian Academies, ii.
    490.

  FOURMONT, the Oriental scholar, anecdote of, iii. 396.

  FOX'S Acts and Monuments, iii. 239.

  FRIENDSHIPS of literary men, interesting anecdotes of, ii. 55-59.

  FRANKLIN, Dr., experiments with lightning, ii. 413.

  FRENCH REVOLUTION a commentary on the English, iii. 489.

  FRONDEURS, organized by Cardinal de Retz, iii. 83.

  FUGGERS, a wealthy family of merchants, i. 6, and note.

  FUNERAL honours paid to their kings by the Goths and Huns, i. 196.

  GALILEO, condemned to disavow his own opinions, i. 28; his
    annotations on Tasso, ii. 444.

  GAMESTERS, memoirs of celebrated, i. 190.

  GAMING, a universal passion, i. 187; treatises on, ib.; among the
    nations of the East, 188, 189; the ancients, ib.; picture of a
    gambling-house in 1731, ib.

  GARDENS, mediæval, ii. 154, note; gradual introduction of fruits and
    flowers, 151-157.

  GAS, origin of the word, iii. 282.

  GAYTON, Edmund, his pleasant notes upon Don Quixote and other works,
    i. 139, note.

  GEMARA.--See TALMUD.

  GENIUS, inequalities of, i. 88; men of, deficient in conversation,
    103; modern persecution of, 197.

  GERBIER, Sir Balthazar, a confidential agent of the Duke of
    Buckingham, ii. 358; notices of his Memoirs, 359-369;  his account
    of the preparations for the siege of Rochelle, 368.

  GESTURES significant, used by the ancients and by modern
    Neapolitans, ii. 119, note.

  GETHIN, Lady Grace, her statue in Westminster Abbey, ii. 270; her
    papers collected and published, under the title of Reliquiæ
    Gethinianæ, 271; character of the book, ib.; Congreve's laudatory
    lines on, ib.; its authenticity doubted, 272; her considerations on
    the choice of a husband, 273.

  GHOSTS, theory of, iii. 287, 288.

  GIANNONE, his History of Naples, iii. 184; threatened by the
    Inquisition, 185; died in the citadel of Turin, ib.

  GIBBON, his mode of study useful to students, ii. 89.

  GILL, Alexander, committed by the Star Chamber, ii. 373.

  GLOVES, supposed to be mentioned in the 108th Psalm, i. 235; account
    of, by Xenophon, ib.; mentioned by several ancient writers, ib.; use
    of, universal in the 9th century, 236; regulations concerning, ib.;
    employed on great and solemn occasions, such as investitures, ib.;
    Abbots forbidden to use, ib.; blessing of, 237; deprivation of, a
    mark of degradation, ib.; challenging by, ib.; used for secret
    correspondence, ib., note; use of, in carrying the hawk, 238;
    formerly forbidden to judges, ib.; singular anecdote concerning,
    ib.; ancient, in the Denny family, 239.

  GLOVE-MONEY, i. 238.

  GOFF, Thomas, a tragic poet, specimens of his works, ii. 42.

  GONDOLIERS of Venice, description of their chanting the verses of
    Tasso and Ariosto, i. 388.

  GOUGH, the antiquary, anecdote of, iii. 319.

  GRAY, loss of his MSS., ii. 451.

  GROTIUS, account of his life and studies, i. 129, 130.

  GRUB-STREET Journal, extract from, ii. 492; its authors, ib., note.

  GUELPHS and Ghibellines, iii. 89.

  GUEUX, iii. 81.

  GUIBERT, foretold the French Revolution, iii. 300.

  GUICCIARDINI, his history posthumous,  iii. 180; first editions of
    his works castrated, ib.; continuation of his history by Adriani,
    ib.

  GUILT, trials and modes of proof of, in superstitious ages, i.
    161-166.

  GULLIVER'S Travels, account of the first edition, i. 320, note.

  HAIR, early taste in the colour of, ii. 33, and note.

  HALIFAX, Marquis of, his MS. memoirs suppressed, ii. 447.

  HALL, Bishop, his belief in witches, iii. 293, and note.

  HALLEY, anecdote of his perseverance and sagacity, iii. 411.

  HAMILTON, Elizabeth, her projected series of comparative biography,
    iii. 424.

  HANS CARVEL, origin of Prior's story of, i. 111.

  HARDI, a French tragic author, ii. 41.

  HARLEQUIN, his Italian origin, ii. 117; turned into a magician by
    the English, ib.; the character essentially Italian, 118; treatises
    written on it, 121; a Roman mime, ib. and note; his classical
    origin, 123, note; his degeneration, 125; his renovation under the
    hand of Goldoni, ib.; improved into a wit in France, ib.

  HARTLIBB, Samuel, a collector and publisher of manuscripts on
    horticulture and agriculture, ii. 153.

  HARVEY, his discovery of the circulation of the blood, iii. 412.

  HAZLERIGG, Sir Arthur, "an absurd bold man," a violent leader of the
    Rump Parliament, iii. 487.

  HEART of a lover, story of, i. 233, 234.

  HEAVY hours of literary men, i. 392.

  HELL, Purgatory, and Heaven, topographical descriptions of, i. 202;
    treatises on, 204, 205.

  HEMON DE LA FOSSE, a modern Polytheist, executed in 1503, i. 216.

  HENRIETTA, queen of Charles I., her character, ii. 337; anecdote
    illustrative of, ib.; after the Restoration, 338; various
    descriptions of her person, ib.; her contract with the Pope, 339;
    account of her journey to England on her marriage, 340; her French
    establishment, 341; anecdote of her confessor's conduct, 342; the
    dismissal of her French attendants, 345; the amount of her supposed
    influence over her husband, 348.

  HENRY the Seventh, anecdote of, ii. 10.

  HENRY the Eighth, anecdote of, ii. 10; his proclamation against
    reading the Bible in English, iii. 373, note.

  HENRY, prince, son of James I., anecdote of, iii. 186-194.

  HENRY, the English historian, loose and general in his references,
    ii. 418.

  HERETICS, a classification of, i. 350.

  HERMIPPUS REDIVIVUS, a curious jeu-d'-esprit, i. 320.

  HEYLIN, a popular writer, died in 1662, iii. 215; his rival
    biographers, 216-221; his History of the Puritans and Presbyterians,
    239.

  HIGH SHERIFF'S Oath, exceptions taken to, by Sir Edward Coke, iii.
    446.

  HISTORY, of events which have not happened, a good title for a
    curious book, ii. 428; speculative history of the battle of
    Worcester, had it terminated differently, 429; a history of this
    kind in Livy, ib.; subjects for, 430-438.

  HISTORY of New Words.--See NEOLOGY. Of suppressed opinion, iii.
    150-163; of writing masters, 167-177.

  HISTORIANS, remarks on the infidelities of, i. 191; Italian,
    commended, iii. 177; notices of the most celebrated, 180-186; wrote
    for posterity, 182, 183; fate of Giannone, who published in his
    life-time, 185; observations on, 186.

  HOLYDAY, Barton, author of the comedy "The Marriage of the Arts,"
    ii. 43.

  HOME, the author of the tragedy of "Douglas," persecuted for
    composing it, i. 197.

  HOMER, notice of his detractors, i. 24; profound knowledge of
    history, geography, arts, sciences, and surgery ascribed to, 303.

  HUDIBRAS, attacks upon Butler, the author of, ii. 491; various
    accounts of the original of the character, 492; indecency avoided
    in, 493; epitaph on the author of, ib.; attacks on Butler's
    character, 494; and vindication of, 495.

  HUGH of Lincoln, legend of, iii. 145, note.

  HUGUENOT, origin of the term, iii. 82.

  HUME, his carelessness in research, iii. 368.

  HUMPHREY, Duke, origin of the phrase "dining with," ii. 169, note.

  HURD, Bishop, his proposed book of parallels, iii. 425.

  HYMNS set to popular tunes, ii. 149, note.

  IDLENESS punished among the ancients, i. 199, 200.

  IKON BASILIKE; its probable effects had it appeared a week sooner,
    ii. 435.

  ILIAD, in a nut-shell, i. 275.

  IMAGE-BREAKERS, proclamation by Elizabeth against, iii. 375, 376.

  IMITATORS, masterly, i. 258, 261.

  IMITATIONS, of Cicero, i. 67; Le Brun's religious Virgil and Ovid,
    ib.; Sannazarius's poem de Partu Virginis, 68; Arruntius an
    ancient imitator of Sallust, ib.; modern, ib.; Arabian anecdote, 69.

  IMITATIONS and Similarities, Poetical, various and curious instances
    of, ii. 92-110.

  INDEPENDENTS, their intolerance, iii. 85.

  INDEX, of prohibited books, ii. 216; Expurgatory, ib.; Congregation
    of the, ib.; reprinted by the heretics with annotations, 217; effect
    of, in raising the sale of books, 219.

  INDEXES, Fuller's observations on, i. 72.

  INFLUENCE of a name, ii. 65-75.

  INGHIRAMI, and forged Etruscan antiques, iii. 307.

  INIGO JONES, his excellent machinery for exhibiting masques, iii.
    12, 13.

  INK, inferiority of modern, ii. 29; various kinds anciently used,
    30.

  INQUISITION, establishment of, at Toulouse, i. 166; in Spain, 167;
    first proceeding of, ib.; taciturnity of the Spaniards attributed
    to, ib.; anecdotes concerning, 168-170; history of, by Orobio, 167.

  INTEMPERANCE in study, i. 8.

  INTRODUCERS of exotic flowers, fruits, &c., ii. 151, 157.

  IRELAND, W. H., his Shakesperian forgeries, i. 137, note.

  ISABELLA-COLOUR, origin of term, i. 217.

  ITALIANS, their national genius dramatic, ii. 118.

  ITALIAN HISTORIANS, iii. 177-186.

  ITALIC letter, introduction of, i. 77; formerly called the Aldine, 78.

  JACQUERIE, iii. 82.

  JAMES the First gave credit to physiognomy, i. 149; injustice done
    to his character for wit, 156; distinguished as Queen James, 462;
    his ambassador's speech, 463; cleanliness of his court, ib.; his
    effeminacy, ib.; his general character, ib.; his imbecility in his
    amusements, 464; his pedantry, 465; account of his death, 466;
    results of the author's further inquiry into the character of, 467;
    his conduct regarding his son's expedition into Spain, ii. 2; his
    objections to Laud's promotion, iii. 297; his character vilified,
    333; his attention to the education of his children, ib.; his
    conduct towards his wife, 334-337.

  JAMES the Second, kept a diary, ii. 214.

  JAMET L'AÎNÉ, proposes to edit a new edition of the Dictionary of
    Trevoux, iii. 232.

  JANSENISTS, the Methodists of France, i. 373; cause a Biographical
    Dictionary to be compiled, devoted to their cause, in opposition to
    that of L'Avocat, ib.; specimens of this dictionary, 373, 374; their
    curses never "lapsed legacies," 375.

  JERUSALEM, Arabic chronicle of, only valuable from the time of
    Mahomet, i. 191; several portions translated by Longuerue, ib.

  JESUITS, a senate of, sent by Sigismund, King of Sweden, to
    represent him at Stockholm, destroyed by stratagem, i. 231-233.

  JESUIT'S snuff poisoned, ii. 442, note.

  JEWS of York, history of their self-destruction, ii. 75-79.

  JOCULAR PREACHERS, i. 251-258.

  JODELLE, Etienne, the first author of French tragedy, ii. 40.

  JOHNSON, Dr., his original Memorandum of Hints for the Life of Pope,
    ii. 380-382.

  JONSON, Ben, Fuller's character of, i. 380; his arrogance, 381; his
    Ode on the ill reception of his play of "The New Inn" quoted, 382;
    Owen Feltham's Ode in reply, 383; Randolph's Consolatory Ode to,
    385; his poem on translation, ii. 501; employed on court masques,
    iii. 6-8, 12.

  JOSEPH VELLA, pretended to have recovered seventeen of the lost
    books of Livy, i. 135; patronized by the  king of Naples, ib.;
    discovered and imprisoned, 136.

  JOURNALS.--See LITERARY JOURNALS.

  JOURNALIST, Public, indispensable acquirements of a, i. 16.

  JUDICIAL Combats, anecdotes of, i. 162, 163.

  KINGS, remark of St. Chrysostom on, i. 173; willing to be aided, but
    not surpassed, 174; anecdotes of, ib.; observations of the Duke of
    Alva and of Dr. Johnson on, 176; divine honours bestowed on, 179;
    dethroned, 181; anecdotes of, and their families, in misfortune,
    181, 182; descendants of, found among the dregs of the populace in
    conquered countries, 183; funeral honours paid to, by the Goths and
    Huns, 196.

  KIRK, Colonel, original of the horrid tale of, related by Hume, iii.
    148.

  KISSING hands, customary among the ancients as an act of adoration,
    ii. 81; used by the primeval bishops, ib.; declined with Paganism,
    ib.; prevailed at Rome, 82; an essential duty under the emperors,
    ib.; practised in every known country, ib.

  KNOX, John, his Machiavelian politics, iii. 242; his opinions on
    toleration, 251; his predictions, 277, 278.

  LAMBE, Dr., a magician, murdered in the streets of London, ii. 364;
    fine and assessment on City companies in consequence, ib., note.

  LA MOTHE LE VAYER, a great quoter, ii. 417.

  LAMPS, Perpetual, i. 243; possibility of, ib.; Rosicrucians, ib.

  LA RUE, i. 257.

  LATIMER, Bishop, curious sermons by, i. 256, and note; his youthful
    history, ii. 39, note.

  LATOUR DU CHATEL, a neglected contributor to the Dictionary of
    Trevoux, procures the mediation of the French government, iii. 231.

  LAUDER, William, pretended discovery of plagiarisms of Milton, i.
    137, and note.

  LAUREATS, sketch of the history of, i. 454; ancient, ib.; Petrarch
    the first modern, ib.; degrees granted to, ib.; formula employed in
    granting the degree of, 455; their honours disgraced in Italy, ib.;
    Querno crowned in a joke, ib.; honours lavished on, by Maximilian
    I., 456; honours still conferred on, in Germany, ib.; unknown among
    the French, ib.; appointment of, in Spain, ib.; in England never
    solemnly crowned, 457; salary of, in England, ib.

  LAZZARONI, iii. 82.

  LAZZI, dramatic side-play, ii. 128.

  LEAGUE, the, its pretext and its cause, iii. 142, 143.

  LEARNED men, persecution of, i. 27; poverty of, 29; imprisonment of,
    35; amusements of, 38.

  LE CLERC, antagonist of Bayle, and author of three Bibliothèques,
    the Universelle et Historique, Choisie, and Ancienne et Moderne, i.
    15.

  LE FEVRE, Nicholas, edition of his works by Lenglet du Fresnoy, iii.
    249, and note.

  LEGENDS, origin of, i. 89; Golden, 90; of the Seven Sleepers, 91;
    account of several, 92, 93; Golden, abounds in religious
    indecencies, 366; of St. Mary the Egyptian, ib.

  LEIBNETZ, his admiration of Barclay's Argenis, iii. 339; anecdote
    of, iii. 455.

  LENGLET DU FRESNOY, his "Méthode pour étudier l'Histoire," iii. 221;
    his peculiar character, ib.; history of his Méthode, 222, 224, and
    note, ib.; his literary history, 224; a believer in alchymy, 225;
    his political adventures, 227.

  LE KAIN, anecdote of, i. 251.

  LEO the Tenth, motive of his projected alliance against the Turks,
    iii. 142.

  L'ESTRANGE, Sir Roger, a strong party writer for Charles II., i.
    159; his Æsop's Fables, 160.

  LETTRES DE CACHET, invented by Father Joseph, confessor to
    Richelieu, iii. 196.

  LIBEL, singular means used to discover the author of a, ii. 314.

  LIBELS on the Duke of Buckingham, ii. 365-370.

  LIBERTY of the Press, restrictions on, ii. 216-227; its freedom did
    not commence till 1694, 227; reflections on, 228.--See CENSORS.

  LIBRARIES, i. 1; celebrated Egyptian and Roman, 1-3; public, in
    Italy and England, 3, 4; in France and Germany, 6, 7; use of lights
    in, 7;  that of the Palatine Apollo destroyed by Pope Gregory
    VIII., 50; in Bohemia, destroyed by the Jesuits, ib.; destruction
    of, under Henry VIII. ib.; astronomical, in the ark of Noah, 303;
    Irish, before the Flood, ib.; Adams's, ib.; modern opinion on their
    utility, iii. 345.

  LICENSERS of the Press.--See CENSORS.

  LIGHTS, in public libraries, ordered in France by Charles V., i. 6;
    objection to, 7.

  LILLY, the astrologer, notices of, i. 280-283; his great work, 282;
    an exquisite rogue, ib.

  LIPOGRAMMATIC works, i. 293.

  LIPSIUS, Justus, his opinions on toleration, iii. 253.

  LITERARY Blunders, a pair of lexicographical, i. 305; instances of
    curious, 320-327.

  LITERARY Composition, ii. 85-92.

  LITERARY Controversy, specimens of Luther's mode of managing, i.
    308; Calvin's conduct of, 309; Beza imitates Calvin's style in, 310;
    opinion of Bishop Bedell on, ib.; conduct of the fathers in, ib.;
    grossness used in, 311; of the Nominalists and Realists, 312.

  LITERARY Fashions, ii. 113; applause given to a work supposed to be
    written by a celebrated man, ib.; notices of various, ib.; love all
    the fashion, 114; Spenser's Faerie Queen became one, ib.; the
    translation of Greek tragedies, a, ib.; of the seventeenth century,
    115; of the time of Charles I., ib.; of Charles II., and of more
    modern times, ib.

  LITERARY Follies, instances of various in the fantastical
    composition of verses, i. 293-307; strange researches made in
    antediluvian times to be classed with, 301-303; anecdote of a
    malicious one, ib.; various anecdotes concerning, 301-307.

  LITERARY Forgeries, by Dr. Berkenhout, a letter from Peele to
    Marlow, i. 380; by George Steevens, iii. 297; history of one, 299,
    300; by Horace Walpole, 302; anecdote of Steevens and Gough, 303,
    304, and notes; by De Grassis, ib.; by Annius of Viterbo, 305, and
    mischievous consequences of, ib.;  Sanchoniathon, 306; of Etruscan
    antiquities, ib.; the false Decretals of Isidore, 308; in the
    prayer-book of Columbus, ib.; in the Virgil of Petrarch, ib.; by the
    Duke de la Vallière, 309; by Lauder, 310; by Psalmanazar, 311.

  LITERARY Friendships, ii. 55-58.

  LITERARY Impositions, curious anecdotes of, i. 260, 261.

  LITERARY Journals, i. 12; originated with the Journal de Sçavans, by
    Denis de Sallo, counsellor in the Parliament of Paris, 13; Nouvelles
    de la République des Lettres, published by Bayle in 1684--continued
    by Bernard, and afterwards by Basnage in his Histoire des Ouvrages
    de Sçavans, 15; Le Clerc's Bibliothèques Universelle et Historique,
    Choisie, and Ancienne et Moderne, ib.; Apostolo Zeno's Giornale de
    Litterati d'Italia, ib.; Bibliothèque Germanique, 16; Bibliothèque
    Britannique, ib.; Journal Britannique by Dr. Maty, ib.; Review
    conducted by Maty, jun., 16; Mémoire des Trévoux, ib.; Journal
    Littéraire, ib.; Memoirs of Literature and Present State of the
    Republic of Letters, the best early English, ib.; monthly, ib.

  LOLLARDS, oath against them enforced upon sheriffs until reign of
    Charles I., iii. 447; repealed by the political feeling of Coke, ib.

  LONGOLIUS, or Longueil, composed a biographical parallel between
    Budæus and Erasmus, iii. 425.

  LORENZO DE' MEDICI, effect of his death, ii. 436.

  LOUIS the Eighth, singular anecdote of the cause of his death, ii.
    32.

  LOUIS the Eleventh, anecdote of, ii. 10, 11.

  LOUIS the Twelfth, cause of his death, ii. 34.

  LOUIS the Fourteenth, chose his courtiers by the rules of
    physiognomy, i. 148; some remarks on his real character, ii, 449;
    passages suppressed in his instruction to the Dauphin, 450.

  LOUIS L'ABÉ, the Aspasia of Lyons, i. 362; wrote the morality of
    "Love and Folly," ib.

  LOUPS-GAROUX, iii. 293.

  LUCULLUS, description of the library of, i. 3.

  LUKE, Sir Samuel, the true prototype of Hudibras, ii. 491, and note.

  LUNSFORD, Colonel, imputed a cannibal, iii. 149, note.

  LUTHER, Martin, remarks on, and extracts from, his controversial
    writings, i. 308, 309; caricatures on, 309, note; Jansenist
    character of, 374; anecdote of, from Guicciardini, ii. 479, 480; his
    political conduct, iii. 144.

  LUYNES, Duc de, his origin, ii. 11.

  LUXURY, in dress, an old dramatist's opinion on, iii. 400; doctrines
    of political economy concerning, 401; excessive amongst our
    ancestors, ib.; the Pas de Sandricourt, 402-405; ruinous in the
    reigns of Elizabeth, James I., and Charles I., 405.

  MABBE, James, translator of "Guzman" and "Celestina," Spanish plays,
    ii. 501; Ben Jonson's verses in praise of, ib.

  MACHIAVEL discovered the secret of comparative history, iii. 179.

  MACKENZIE, Sir George, notice of his Treatise on Solitude, ii. 50.

  MAD-SONG, specimen of an ancient, ii. 315.

  MAGIC, instances of many learned men accused of, i. 27-29; Solomon
    accounted an adept in, 122.

  MAGIUS, Charles, a noble Venetian, iii. 136; his travels and
    adventures contained in a volume of paintings, ib.; detailed
    description of, 137-141.

  MAGLIABECHI, Anthony, celebrated  for his great knowledge of books,
    i. 394; description of him and his mode of life, 394-397.

  MAII, the discoverer of Cicero's treatise de Republica, i. 18, and
    note.

  MAILLARD, Oliver, a famous cordelier and preacher, i. 252.

  MAINE, Duc de, instituted the Journal de Trévoux, iii. 230; and the
    Dictionary of Trévoux, ib.

  MAINTENON, Madame de, marries Scarron, i. 424; corrects his style,
    ib.

  MALHERBE, his love of Horace, iii. 340.

  MALIGNANTS, iii. 86.

  MAN of one book, iii. 337-340.

  MANDRAKE, i. 246.

  MANNERS, anecdotes of European, ii. 30-39; domestic, among the
    English, 42-44.

  MANUSCRIPTS, more valued by the Romans than vases of gold, i. 2; two
    thousand collected by Trithemius, abbot of Spanheim, who died 1516,
    7; recovery of, 17-24; of the classics, disregarded and mutilated by
    the monks, 18; researches for, at the restoration of letters, 19;
    great numbers imported from Asia, 20; of Quintilian discovered by
    Poggio under a heap of rubbish, ib.; of Tacitus found in a
    Westphalian monastery, ib.; of Justinian's code found in a city of
    Calabria, ib.; loss of, ib.; unfair use made of by learned men, 22;
    anecdotes concerning, 22-25; of Galileo, partly destroyed by his
    wife's confessor, 28; ancient, frequently adorned with portraits of
    the authors, 42; destruction of, at the Reformation, 51; of Lord
    Mansfield destroyed in the riots of 1780, and of Dr. Priestley by
    the mob at Birmingham, 53; loss of many of Lady Mary Wortley
    Montagu's letters, 54; loss of letters addressed to Peiresc, ib.; of
    Leonardo da Vinci, ib.; anecdotes of manuscripts of several
    celebrated works, 375-377; description of the ancient adornments of,
    ii. 28; of Pope's versions of the Iliad and Odyssey, 110; of Sir
    Matthew Hale, bequeathed to Lincoln's Inn, to avoid their mutilation
    by the licensers of the press, 220; slaves employed to copy, 398; of
    the  Vision of Alberico, preserved in the king's library at Paris,
    422: of Galileo's annotations on Tasso, 444; destruction of Hugh
    Broughton's, by Speed, 445; destruction of Leland's, by Polydore
    Vergil, ib.; dilapidation of the Harleian, 446; suppression of one
    relating to Sixtus IV. by Fabroni, ib.; of the Marquis of Halifax
    suppressed, 447; Earl of Pulteney's and Earl of Anglesea's MS.
    Memoirs suppressed, ib.; anecdotes of the suppression of various,
    448-452; mutilators of, 448; of Oldys's, iii. 493.

  MARANA, John Paul, author of the Turkish Spy, i. 377-379.

  MARBLES, presenting representations of natural forms, i. 244-247.

  MARE CLAUSUM, written by Selden in answer to the Mare Liberum of
    Grotius, ii. 80; copies preserved in the chest of the Exchequer and
    in the Court of Admiralty, ib.

  MARIONETTES, improved by the English, iii. 238.

  MARLBOROUGH, the great Duke of (See BLENHEIM), account of his
    wealth, iii. 108.

  MAROLLES, Abbé de, a most egregious scribbler, i. 350; wrote his own
    memoirs, 351; good advice in the postscript to the epistle
    dedicatory of that work, ib.; his memoirs, ii. 538; anecdote of him
    and De L'Etang, a critic, 539; notices of his voluminous works, ib.;
    his magnificent collection of prints, 541.

  MAROT, Clement, his character, ii. 474; his translation of the
    Psalms, ib.; sung to the airs of popular ballads, 476; his Psalms
    the fashion, 477; edition published by Theodore Beza, set to music,
    ib.; his Psalms declared Lutheran, and himself forced to fly to
    Geneva, ib.

  MAR-PRELATE, the book suppressed, ii. 453.

  MASKS, worn by Italian actors, ii. 124.

  MASSINGER a student of the Italian drama, ii. 138.

  MASQUES, notices of magnificent, in the time of Charles I., ii. 327;
    the farewell masque of the Duke of Buckingham, 369; mistaken notions
    of commentators regarding,  iii. 5; their real nature, 7, 8, 9;
    description of the masque of Night and the Hours, 10; their ultimate
    ruin, by their splendour, at the court of Louis XIV., 13, note.

  MASSILLON, i. 250.

  MASTER of the Ceremonies, created by James the First, ii. 196.

  MASTERLY IMITATORS, i. 258-261.

  MATRIMONY, its suitableness to learned men considered, i. 332-334;
    opinions of Sir Thomas Browne upon, 335; not borne out by his
    practice, ib.

  MAXIMILIAN the First, founds a poetical college at Vienna, i. 456.

  MEALS, hours of, ii. 315.

  MEDAL, struck by the Catholics to commemorate the massacre of the
    Huguenots, iii. 249.

  MEDALS, satiric, used as money in the Saturnalia, iii. 151; modern
    applications of, 158-160.

  MEDICINE and Morals, considerations on their connection, ii.
    464-469; connection of the mind with the body, 470.

  MEDINA CONDE, forges deeds and inscriptions to benefit the Church,
    i. 136; sold a bracelet to the Morocco ambassador, as part of the
    treasure of the last Moorish king, yet in fact fabricated by
    himself, ib.

  MEMOIRS, remarks on their interest as compared with history, i. 462.

  MENDELSSOHN, anecdote of, i. 392.

  MENDICITY, punished among the Jews and nations of antiquity, i. 199,
    200; first made a trade of by liberated Christian slaves, 201;
    punishment of in China, 202.

  MENOT, Michael, a celebrated preacher, specimen of his sermons, i.
    256.

  MENTAL DISORDERS, singular mode of cure of, ii. 466; remarkable
    anecdotes of, 468-470.

  METEMPSYCHOSIS, doctrines of, advocated in the present age, i. 192;
    notion long extant in Greece before the time of Pythagoras, ib.;
    taught by the Egyptians, ib.; entertained by many Eastern nations
    and by the Druids, ib.; Welsh system of, explained by Sharon Turner,
    193; believed in Mexico, 194; Plutarch's description of, ib.

  MICHAEL ANGELO, anecdote of, i. 258.

  MIGNARD, a celebrated painter, curious anecdote concerning, i. 258,
    259.

  MILTON, his controversy with Salmasius and Morus conducted with
    mutual revilings, i. 152, 153; absurdly criticised by Bentley,
    370-373; indebted to Andreini for the first idea of Paradise Lost,
    ii. 141; his works suffered at the hands of both Royalist and
    Republican licensers, 223; his Areopagitica, 225; a passage in his
    History of England suppressed, but preserved in a pamphlet, 448; his
    Comus escaped the destruction of the Bridgewater papers, 451; the
    story of him and the Italian lady, probably an invention of George
    Steevens, iii. 299; copied from a French story purporting to be of
    the 15th century, 300.

  MILLINERS'bills, ancient and modern, ii. 39.

  MIMES, Arch-mime followed the body of Vespasian at his funeral, iii.
    120.

  MIMI, an impudent race of buffoons, ii. 120; harlequin, a Roman
    mime, 121, and note.

  MINISTERS, origin of the term as applied to the pastors of Christian
    churches, i. 128; palaces built by, notices of several, iii.
    186-192; Sir Robert Walpole's remarks on the imprudence of their
    erecting such, 193; yet builds one himself, ib.

  MINSTRELS, ancient and modern, pickpockets, ii. 146, note.

  MISHNA, see TALMUD.

  MISSALS, gross adornments of, i. 366.

  MODERN stories and plots, many derived from the East, i. 111, 112.

  MODES of salutation in various nations, ii. 12.

  MONK, General, anecdote of him and his wife, i. 468; his conduct
    towards Charles II. at his landing, iii. 389.

  MONTAGU, Lady Mary Wortley, suppression of her MSS., ii. 450.

  MONTFLEURY, a French actor, death of, i. 248.

  MONTLUC, Bishop of Valence, his negotiations for the election of the
    Duke of Anjou as King of Poland, iii. 349-362.

  MORALIITIES, see MYSTERIES and MORALITIES.

  MORALITY of "Every Man," referred by Percy to the class of tragedy,
    ii. 278.

  MORE, Doctor, his extravagant Platonic opinions, i. 216.

  MORUS, controversy of Salmasius with Milton, continued by, with
    mutual abuse, i. 153.

  MUSIC, use of, in discovering indispositions by the voice, i. 151;
    influence of, in the cure of diseases, 269-271; effect of, on
    animals, 272-274.

  MUTILATIONS commonly practised in the middle ages, ii. 311.

  MYSTERIES, ANCIENT, bibliographical note of such as are printed, i.
    352, note; one still performed in Bavaria, i. 360, note.

  MYSTERIES and Moralities introduced by pilgrims, i. 352;
    subsequently distinguished characters actors in, 353; performed in
    open plains, ib.; indulgence granted to frequenters of, ib.; at
    Chester, ib.; singular anecdotes concerning a mystery, 354;
    specimens from French mysteries, 355; observations of Bayle and
    Warton on, 357; distinguished from each other, ib.; specimen of a
    morality, 358; moralities allegorical dramas, ib.; passion of René
    d'Anjou for, 360; triple stage used for representation of, 361;
    anecdote relating to an English mystery, ib.; morality of "Love and
    Folly," 362; at Kendal, Yorkshire, iii. 442; usually performed in
    the festival of Corpus Christi, ib., note.

  NAMES, anecdotes relating to, and to their effect on mankind, ii.
    65-75; orthography of proper, ii. 237-239; names of our streets,
    239-243.

  NAMES, significance of Roman, ii. 75, note.

  NARDI, his history of Florence, iii. 181.

  NATURAL PRODUCTIONS resembling artificial compositions, i. 244-246.

  NEAL, his account of the Nonconformists, iii. 240.

  NEEDHAM, Marchmont, the great patriarch of newspaper writers, i.
    158; short account of, ib.

  NEOLOGY, or the novelty of new words and phrases, remarks on, iii.
    23; Neological Dictionary proposed  by Lord Chesterfield, 26; not
    always to be condemned, 27; examples of the introduction of various
    new words in French and English, 28-32; the term "fatherland"
    introduced by the author, 31; picturesque words, 32.

  NERLI, Philip, his "Commentarj de Fatti Civili," iii. 182.

  NEWCASTLE, Margaret, Duchess of, celebrated among literary wives, i.
    327-337; her account of her husband's mode of life, ii. 38, 39.

  NEWSPAPERS, forged, and used unsuspectingly by historians, i. 156,
    note.

  NEWSPAPERS, originated in Italy, i. 155; called Gazettas, ib.; first
    a Venetian, published monthly, ib.; circulated in manuscript, ib.;
    prohibited by Gregory XIII., ib.; first English, 156; much used by
    the English during the Civil Wars of Cromwell, and notices of these,
    157-159; origin of, in France, 160; first daily one after the
    Restoration, ib.; only one daily, in the reign of Queen Anne, ib.;
    union between them and literary periodicals, opinions expressed on,
    ib.

  NEWTON, remarks on, iii. 413.

  NICCOLI, Nicholas, founded the first public library in Italy, i. 4.

  NICKNAMES, use of, practised by political parties, iii. 80;
    instances of many, 81-89; serve to heat the minds of the people, 83;
    of various Parliaments, 85; effect of, on ministers, 89.

  NOBILITY, conduct of kings towards, ii. 11, 12.

  NOBLEMEN turned critics, pair of anecdotes concerning, i. 131.

  NOMINALISTS and Realists, i. 312.

  NOSTRODAMUS, consulted by Catherine de' Medici, i. 279.

  NOVELS, the successors of romances, i. 450; Adam Smith's favourable
    opinion of, ib.

  NUMERICAL Figures, of Indian origin, i. 276; introduction of Arabic,
    277; Roman, ib.; origin of Roman, ib.; falsification of Arabic, 278.

  OBSCURITY, in style, taught by a professor, i. 401; Lycophron
    possessed this taste, 402; defence of, by Thomas Anglus, ib.;
    Gravina's observations on, ib.

  OLD AGE, progress of, in new studies,  i. 98; remark of Adam Smith,
    on resumption of former studies in, ib.

  OLDYS, a literary antiquary, iii. 493; caricature of, by Grose, 495;
    released from the fleet by the Duke of Norfolk, and made Norroy King
    at Arms, ib., and note; author of the anacreontic, "Busy, curious,
    thirsty fly," 496; placed in the library of the Earl of Oxford, 497;
    his integrity, ib., and note; his literary labours, 497-499; his
    life of Rawleigh, 499; history of his two annotated copies of
    Langbaine, 502; fate of his MSS., 503; his diaries, 504; his
    readiness to aid others with his knowledge, 506; his Dissertation on
    English Poetry curtailed by the bookseller, 507; extracts from his
    diaries, 508-511; his intended Life of Shakspeare, 509; anecdote of
    him and Pope, 511.

  OLIVETAN Bible, iii. 155.

  OPINIONS, suppressed, modes of expressing them in ancient and modern
    times, iii. 150; in the Saturnalia, ib.; by carvings and
    illuminations, 152; preceding the Reformation, 153; instance of the
    Olivetan Bible, 155; by medals and prints, 156.

  ORCHIS, Bee and Fly, i. 245.

  ORDEALS, i. 161-166.

  ORDINARIES, the "Hells" of the 17th century, ii. 165; description of
    the arts practised at, 165-167.

  OROBIO, his description of his imprisonment in the Inquisition, i.
    167.

  ORTHOGRAPHY of proper names, ii. 261; of the name of Shakespeare,
    ii. 238, note; of Sir Walter Raleigh, iii. 111.

  OSMAN, Sultan, promotes his gardener, ii. 10.

  OXFORD, Edward Vere, Earl of, his secret history, ii. 243-245.

  PALACES built by ministers, iii. 186-192.

  PALINGENESIS.--See REGENERATION.

  PALMER, the actor, his death, i. 249.

  PAMPHLETS, sketch of Myles Davis's history of, i. 343; origin and
    rise of, 344; one pretended to have been composed by Jesus Christ,
    ib.; Alexander Pope denounced as a plotter in a, 345; etymologies of
    the word, 345-347.

  PANTOMIME, French verses in praise of, and translation of, ii. 116;
    Cervantes and Bayle's delight in, 116, 117; harlequin, 119; of the
    lower Italians in their gestures, ib.; treatises on, 121;
    transmitted from the Romans, 123; improvement of, by Ruzzante, 124;
    the history of a people traced in, 125; description of the various
    characters in Italian, 126.

  PANTOMIMI, tragic actors usually mute, ii. 120; Seneca's taste for,
    ib.; their influence over the Roman people, 121.

  PANTOMIMICAL Characters. See PANTOMIME; Massinger and Molière
    indebted to, ii. 138; remarks on Shakspeare's "Pantaloon," 139.

  PAPER, among the ancients, ii. 27, 28; introduction into England,
    29; various sorts of modern, ib.

  PARACELSUS, his receipt for making a fairy, iii. 286, 287.

  PARADISE LOST, prose and verse versions of, i. 305.

  PARISIAN Massacre, apology for, iii. 255-260, 352.

  PARK, Mungo, his book interpolated and altered by his editor, Bryan
    Edwards, ii. 453.

  PARKER, Bishop of Oxford, iii. 279, note.

  PARODIES, anecdote relating to, ii. 453; resembles mimicry, 454; not
    made in derision, ib.; practised by the ancients, 455; ancient, of
    Homer, ib.; modern, 456; dramatic, anecdotes of modern, 458-460;
    legitimate use of, ib.

  PARPAILLOTS, or Parpirolles, iii. 82.

  PARTICULAR Providence, various opinions on, ii. 428-431; the
    granting a free-conduct to Luther, by Charles V., possibly one, 432.

  PASQUIN and Marforio, account of, i. 208.

  PASQUINADES, origin of, and instances of several, i. 208.

  PATRONS, their treatment of authors, i. 82; anecdotes regarding, 83,
    84; opinion of Dr. Johnson upon, 83.

  PAULUS JOVIUS, description of the country-house and collections of
    statues, books, and portraits belonging to, i. 45; description of
    the villa built by, iii. 397.

  PAZZI, Cavaliero, founder of the Accademia Colombaria, ii. 483.

  PEG-TANKARDS, ii. 296, and note.

  PEIRESC, a man of incessant literary occupations, and an enthusiast
    in the importation of exotic plants, ii. 151; anecdotes of, iii.
    409.

  PEMBROKE, Anne, Countess of, designed a history of her family, iii.
    421.

  PERFUMERY and costly washes, introduced into England by the Earl of
    Oxford, i. 225.

  PETITIONS, to Parliament against the Drama, ii. 289; mock, ib.

  PETITIONERS and Abhorrers, iii. 87.

  PETRACH, formula used at his coronation with the Laurel Crown, i.
    455; his passion for literary composition, ii. 592; his Laura, iii.
    309.

  PICTORIAL Biography.--See MAGIUS.

  PISISTRATUS, the first projector amongst the Greeks of a collection
    of the works of the learned, i. 2.

  PHILIP the First of Spain, i. 469; his marriage with Mary of
    England, ib.; sought Queen Elizabeth in marriage, 470; offered
    himself to three different sisters-in-law, ib.; his advice to his
    son, ib.; his death-bed, ib.; his epitaph, 471.

  PHILOSOPHY, dreams at the dawn of, iii. 280-290; mechanical fancies,
    291, 292; inquiries after prodigies, 293; further anecdotes of,
    294-296.

  PHYSIOGNOMY, credited by Louis XIV. and James I., i. 148, 149.

  PICART, his impostures innocentes, i. 259.

  PICTURES belonging to Charles I., ii. 332, 333.

  PINAMONTI, his book on the eternal punishments, i. 204, note.

  PINELLI, his great library, and its partial destruction, i. 57, and
    note.

  PLAGIARISM, in printed sermons, i. 400; a professor of, ib.

  PLANTS, presenting representations of natural forms, i. 245.

  PLANTYN the printer, and his office at Antwerp, i. 77, note.

  PLATINA, his account of his persecution and tortures, for having
    been a member of the "Academy" at Rome, ii. 486.

  PLATO, Aristotle studied under, i. 143; parallel between him and
    Aristotle, ib.; contest between him  and Aristotle, 144; the model
    of the moderns who profess to be anti-poetical, 433; a true poet
    himself, ib.

  PLATONISM, modern, originated among the Italians, i. 213; system of,
    by Gemisthus Pletho, ib.; professed by a Mr. Thomas Taylor, 215; by
    a scholar in the reign of Louis XII., 216; by Dr. More, ib.

  PLETHO, or Gemisthus, a remarkable modern professor of Platonism, i.
    213.

  PLATTS or Plots, theatrical discovery of curious ones at Dulwich
    College, and remarks upon, ii. 138-140; see SCENARIO.

  PLOTT, Dr., his project of a tour, iii. 292.

  PLUNDER, etymology of, iii. 87, and note.

  POETS, Plato's description of the feelings of, in the Phædon, i.
    433; opinions of various learned men on the works of, 433; remarks
    on the habits of, 434, 435; behaviour of Frederic King of Prussia
    (father of the Great Frederic) to, 436; different conduct of other
    kings towards, 437; honours paid to, in the early stage of poetry,
    ib.; anecdote of Margaret of Scotland and Alain the poet, 438;
    opinions of the pious on the works of, ib.; too frequently merely
    poets, 439; hints to young, 440; to veteran, ib.; mistresses of,
    441; change their opinions of their productions, ib.; antiquity of
    the custom of crowning, 454; abolished in the reign of Theodosius,
    ib.; regal, 457; condemned, ii. 303-308; laureat, see LAUREATS.

  POETICAL GARLAND, i. 247.

  POETICAL imitations and similarities, ii. 92-113.

  POINT-DEVICE, etymology of, iii. 188, and note.

  POLAND, history of the election of the Duke of Anjou as King of,
    iii. 346-363.

  POLICHINELLO.--See PUNCH.

  POLITIAN, Angelo, a polished Italian writer of the 15th century, i.
    457; his dedicatory epistle, prefixed to his epistles, 458.

  POLITICAL Nicknames, iii. 80-90.

  POLITICAL Reports, false maxim on  the efficacy of, ii. 438;
    ancient instances, ib.; of the battle of Lutzen, 439; on the battle
    of the Boyne, ib.; other anecdotes, modern and ancient, of the
    effect of, 440-443.

  POLITICAL Religionism, illustrations of its effects, iii. 238-244.

  POLITICAL Prognostics.--See PREDICTIONS. Dugdale hastened his
    labours in anticipation of the disorders of the Rebellion, iii. 261.

  POLITICAL Parallels, iii. 267.

  POLYDORE VERGIL, a destroyer of MSS., ii. 445.

  POMPONIUS LÆTUS, in the 15th century raised altars to Romulus, ii.
    485; chief of the "Academy" at Rome, 486.

  POPE, his manuscripts, ii. 110; passage from, with the various
    alterations, 111, 112; Dr. Johnson's memorandum of hints for the
    life of, 381; anecdote of, iii. 397.

  POPE, project of the, for placing a cardinal on the throne of
    England, ii. 505; favoured by Henry IV., ib.

  POPES, their early humility and subsequent arrogance, ii. 83;
    Celestine kicks off the crown of the Emperor Henry the Sixth, ib.;
    their infallibility first asserted, ib.; protest of the University
    of Vienna against, 84; their excommunications, ib.

  PORTA, John Baptiste and John Vincent, found the academy "Degli
    Oziosi," ii. 488; Baptiste's mechanical genius, iii. 290.

  PORTRAITS, of authors, of celebrated men, i. 42-47; of the Fugger
    family, 6; commonly prefixed to ancient manuscripts, 42; collections
    of, amongst the ancients, 43; query upon the mode of their
    transmission and their correctness, ib.; use of, ib.; anecdotes
    relative to the effect of, 45; objections of ingenious men to sit
    for, reprobated, 46; Granger's illustrations of, 45; Perrault's
    "Eloges" confined to French, ib.; collection by Paulus Jovius, ib.;
    doubts as to authenticity of several, ib.; literary, of himself, by
    St. Evremond, 102; in minute writing, 275.

  PORT ROYAL SOCIETY, the, i. 94;  their Logic, or The Art of
    Thinking, an admirable work, ib.; account of its rise and progress,
    95; many families of rank erected houses there, ib.; persecuted and
    destroyed by the Jesuits, 96; their writings fixed the French
    language, ib.

  POSIES on rings, iii. 39, note.

  POVERTY, abridgment of history of, by Morin, i. 198; regulations
    regarding, among the Jews, ib.; among the Greeks, Romans, and
    Egyptians, 199; uncommon among the ancients, 201; introduction of
    hospitals for the relief of, ib.

  PRAYER-BOOKS, gross illustrations of, i. 366.

  PREACHERS, jocular, i. 251-258.

  PREDICTION, political and moral, determined by certain prognostics,
    iii. 260; of the Reformation by Cardinal Julian, Sir Thomas More,
    and Erasmus, 262; by Sir Walter Rawleigh, 263; of Tacitus, ib.; of
    Solon, 264; of Charlemagne, ib.; Cicero's art of, ib.; faculty of,
    possessed by Du Vair, 265; principles of, revealed by Aristotle,
    266; by Mr. Coleridge, 268; of the French Revolution, 269, 270;
    frequently false, 272; anecdotes, 273; of the end of the world, ib.,
    note; of the destruction of London in 1750, ib., note; of American
    independence, 274; sometimes condemned as false when really
    verified, 275; caution to be observed in, 276; instances of, by
    Knox, 277; of the death of Henry IV., ib.; reflections on, 278, 279.

  PREFACES, frequently superior to the work, i. 71; a volume of,
    always kept ready by Cicero, ib.; ought to be dated, 72; anecdote of
    Du Clos' to a fairy tale, ii. 340.

  PREFERMENT, anecdotes of, ii. 12.

  PRESBYTERIANS, their conduct under Charles II., iii. 240; their
    intolerance, 254.

  PRESS-MONEY, proposition that those who refused it should be tried
    by martial law, iii. 462, and note.

  PRICE, Robert, a Welsh lawyer, incidents in his life, iii. 422.

  PRIMERO, a game at cards described, ii. 166, note.

  PRINCE HENRY, son of James I., resembled Henry V. in his features,
    ii. 186; Dr. Birch's life of, 187; anecdotes concerning, 187-194;
    his diary, 207.

  PRINTING, art of, possessed by the Romans without being aware of it,
    i. 43, and note; probably originated in China, ib., and note;
    general account of early, 73-78.

  PRINTERS, mention of early, i. 75.

  PRINTS, satiric, iii. 160.

  PROCLAMATIONS, against long swords and deep ruffs, i. 222; royal,
    against buildings in London, iii. 365; to enforce a country
    residence, 367; never possessed the force of laws, 366; of Henry
    VIII., 372; of Mary, 373; of Edward VI., 374; of Elizabeth, 375; of
    James I., 376; of Charles I., 377; of Charles II. against vicious,
    debauched, and profane persons, ib.; others by Charles II., 379.

  PROFESSION, the choice of one and its influence on the mind, with
    some illustrative anecdotes, ii. 461-463.

  PROPER names, orthography of, the uncertainty of, ii. 237; anecdotes
    and instances of, 237-243.

  PROTESTANTISM, once existed in Spain, ii. 434.

  PROVERBS, use of, derided by Lord Chesterfield, iii. 33; records of
    the populace, 34; existed before books, ib.; abound in the most
    ancient writers, ib.; "the dark sayings of the wise," 35; introduced
    into the Greek drama, 36; definition of, 38; influence of, over a
    whole people, ib.; collection of, by Franklin, ib.; inscribed on
    furniture, ib.; English, collected by Heywood, 39; a speech of, 40;
    an era of, amongst the English, 41; long favourites in France, ib.;
    comedy of, ib.; family, 42; ancient examples of the use of, 43;
    some, connected with the characters of eminent men, 44; use of, by
    poets, ib.; Eastern origin of many, 45; collection of, by Polydore
    Vergil and Erasmus, of Spanish by Fernandez Nunes, of Italian and
    French, English and Scotch, 46, 47; study of, 48; illustrative of
    national character, 48-56; anecdotes of the origin of certain,
    56-61; historical, 61; remarks on the arrangement of collections of,
    63.

  PRYNNE, his method of composition, ii. 534; his extraordinary
    perseverance, ib.; title of the catalogue of his writings, 535; copy
    of his works bequeathed to Sion College, ib.; the pretended
    retractation of his Histriomastix, iii. 315, note.

  PSALM-SINGING, remarks on, ii. 472; first introduction of, ib.; T.
    Warton's criticism of, 473; history of, 473-478; practised at lord
    mayor's feasts, 479.

  PSALMANAZAR, his extraordinary literary forgery, i. 137, note; iii.
    311; some account of, 312-314.

  PUCK, the Commentator.--See STEEVENS.

  PULTENEY, Earl of Bath, MS. Memoirs of, suppressed, ii. 447.

  PUNCH, his ancient origin, ii. 122, and note; origin of his name,
    ib., note.

  PUNCHINELLO.--See PUNCH.

  PUNNING, in a dictionary, i. 305.

  PUNS, Cicero's, i. 69.

  PUPPET-SHOWS in England, iii. 238.

  PURGATORY, Cardinal Bellarmin's treatise on, i. 204.

  PURITANS, turn bacchanalian songs into spiritual ones, ii. 148.

  PURITANS and Precisians, party nicknames at the Reformation, iii.
    84, 85.

  PYROTECHNICS.--See FIREWORKS.

  QUADRIO, his Universal History of Poetry, iii. 233; his ignorance of
    English poetry, 234-236; his opinion of English comedy, 236; praises
    our puppet-shows, 238.

  QUEEN MARY the First, her marriage with Philip of Spain, i. 469; her
    letter of instructions, ib.

  QUEEN ELIZABETH, letter of, to her brother, Edward VI., i. 461; her
    exhibition of youthfulness to the ambassador of the Scottish king,
    463; remarkable period in her annals, ii. 179; her maiden state,
    ib.; real cause of her repugnance to change it, ib., and note; her
    artifices to conceal her resolution, 180; debates of the Commons on
    the succession to, 181; address to, by the Duke of Norfolk, and her
    answer, ib.; despatch of the French ambassador on this occasion,
    181-186; her judicious conduct, ib.; her conduct towards printers
    and authors, 221, 222; her dislike to the appointment of a
    successor, iii. 331; account of her death-bed, 331, 332.

  QUEEN ANNE BULLEN, anecdote relative to her execution, i. 462.

  QUERNO, made laureat for the joke's sake, i. 455.

  QUEVEDO, his love for Don Quixote, iii. 339.

  QUINCE, origin of, ii. 157, note.

  QUODLIBETS, or Scholastic Disquisitions, i. 60.

  QUOTATION, remarks on the use of, ii. 416; Selden's precept for,
    violated by himself, 417; Bayle's remarks on the use of, 418; when
    used by an eminent author often appropriated by an inferior, 419;
    value of the proper application of, 420.

  RABBINICAL Stories, specimens of, i. 120-126; scripture quoted to
    support, 126.

  RANTZAU, founder of the great library at Copenhagen, stanzas by, i. 5.

  RANZ DES VACHES, effect of, i. 274.

  RAWLEIGH, Sir Walter, composed his History of the World in prison,
    i. 36; assisted in that work by several eminent persons, ib.;
    variations in orthography of his name, iii. 111, note; author's
    account of his character, 112; Gibbon's and Hume's observations on,
    113; cunning practised by, ib.; anecdotes of, 114; account of his
    return from Guiana, 115, 116; his attempt to escape, 118; betrayed
    by Sir Lewis Stucley, 119; narrative of his last hours, 124-129; his
    History of the World, the labour of several persons, 131; note on
    Mr. Tytler's remarks on the author's account of, 135, note; his
    extravagance in dress, 407; notice of Oldys's life of, 499.

  RAYNAUD, Theophilus, his works fill twenty folios, and ruined his
    bookseller, 542; notice of, 543; his curious treatises, ib.

  REALISTS, a sect of Scholars, i. 312.

  REFORMATION, origin of, iii. 142.

  REFUTATION, a Catholic's, i. 349.

  REGENERATION of material bodies, iii. 286, 287.

  RELICS of Saints, bought, sold, and stolen, i, 239; treatise on, by
    Gilbert de Nogent, ib.; of St. Lewin, ib.; of St. Indalece, 240; of
    St. Majean, ib.; of St. Augustin's arm,  ib.; flogging of, ib.;
    miracles performed by, ib.; miraculously multiplied, 241; anecdote
    of a box of, presented by the Pope to Prince Radzivil, ib.;
    Frederick the Wise, a great collector of, 242; phial of the blood of
    Christ sent to Henry III., ib.; fall in price of, ib.; deceptive,
    243.

  RELIGION, state of, during the Civil Wars, iii. 433; illustrative
    anecdotes of, 434-436; contest between Owen and Baxter on, 437;
    confusion of, ib.; a colt baptised in St. Paul's Cathedral, 439, and
    note; anecdotes, 439-441; noticed by George Wither the Poet, 442;
    ordinance of the Parliament to rectify the disorders in, 443.

  RELIGIONISM distinguished from religion, iii. 239.

  RELIGIOUS Nouvellettes, a class of very singular works, i. 363;
    account of one, 364; notice of one discussing three thousand
    questions concerning the Virgin Mary, 365; Life of the Virgin, 367;
    Jesuits usual authors of, 368; one describing what passes in
    Paradise, ib.; the Spiritual Kalendar, ib.

  REPRESENTATION, right of, not fixed in the 10th century, i. 162.

  RESIDENCES of literary men, notices of several, iii. 394-399.

  REVIEWS.--See LITERARY JOURNALS.

  REVOLUTIONS, maxim on, iii. 278.

  RHYMES inscribed on knives, and alluded to by Shakespeare, iii.
    38, note; on fruit trenchers, ib.; on rings, 39, note.

  RICCOBONI, a celebrated actor, his remarks on the Italian extempore
    comedy, ii. 134; anecdote of, 137; his inscription on the curtain of
    his theatre, ib.

  RICH, a celebrated harlequin, ii. 130, and note.

  RICHARDSON, the author of Sir Charles Grandison, remarks on him
    and his works, ii. 62-65.

  RICHELIEU, Cardinal de, his general character, ii. 349; his death-bed,
    ib.; anecdotes of the sinister means practised by, 350; his
    confessor, Father Joseph, 351-353; projects of assassination of,
    354, and note; drives Father Caussin, the king's confessor, into
    exile, 355.

  RIVE, Abbé de, librarian of the Duke  de la Vallière, iii. 341; his
    style of criticism, 342; his collections for works never begun, ib.;
    his observations on the cause of the errors of literary history,
    344.

  ROBINSON CRUSOE, remarks on, ii. 274; history of, traced, 275;
    written by Defoe, after illness, and in comparative solitude, 276;
    not published till seven years after Selkirk's adventures, 277.

  ROC, the, of Arabian tales, a creature of Rabbinical fancy, i. 124.

  ROCHEFOUCAULT De la, remarks on him and his maxims, i. 110.

  ROCHELLE, expedition to, ii. 367; preparations for, ib.; frustrated
    by the death of Buckingham, 369.

  ROMANCES, the offspring of fiction and love, i. 442; early, ib.;
    that of Heliodorus denounced in the synod, 443; forbidden in the
    Koran, ib.; of the Troubadours, 444; modern poets indebted to, ib.;
    Le Roman de Perceforest, 445; of chivalry, examples of, 446;
    Italian, 448; use made of by poets, 449; French, ib.; went out of
    fashion with square cocked hats, 450; modern novels, ib.; histories
    of, 451; D'Urfé's Astræa, ib.

  ROMNEY the painter, his belief in alchymy, i. 282, and note.

  RONSARD, the French bard, and his Bacchanalia, ii. 41.

  ROSY-CROSS, the President of, proffers his advice to Charles I., iii.
    464.

  ROUSSEAU, his prediction of the French Revolution, iii. 271, 272,
    and note; his favourite authors, iii. 340.

  ROYAL Autographs, iii. 165.

  ROYAL Promotions, ii. 10.

  ROYAL SOCIETY, origin of, ii. 410-413.

  ROYAL Society of Literature, ii. 406, note.

  RUBENS, his house at Antwerp, iii. 398; his love for collections of
    art, 399, and note.

  RUFFS, extravagances in, i. 222-227.

  RUMP, the origin of the term, iii. 482, 483; three stages in its
    political progress, 484; songs upon, 485; debate of the, whether to
    massacre all the king's party, 487; parallel between their course of
    conduct and that of the leaders in the French Revolution, 489-493.

  SAINTE Ampoule, ii. 434, note.

  SALMASIUS, his controversy with and abuse of Milton, i. 152-154.

  SALVATOR ROSA, fond of acting in extemporal comedy, ii. 133.

  SANDRICOURT, the Sieur de, ruined himself by one fête, iii. 402-405.

  SANS CULOTTES, iii. 83.

  ST. AMBROSE, writes a treatise on Virgins, i. 412; and another on
    the Perpetual Virginity of the Mother of God, ib.; his chastisement
    of an erring nun, ib.

  ST. BARTHOLOMEW, apology for the massacre of, iii. 255-260.

  ST. EVREMOND, literary portrait of, by himself, i. 102.

  ST. URSULA and the Eleven Thousand Virgins all created out of a
    blunder, i. 324.

  ST. VIAR, created by an error, i, 323.

  SATIRICAL medals, iii. 156-160.

  SATIRISTS may dread the cane of the satirised, i. 442.

  SATURNALIA, institution of among the Romans, derived by Macrobius
    from the Grecians, ii. 256; dedicated to Saturn, ib.; latterly
    prolonged for a week, 257; description of, ib.; crept into the
    Christian Church, 258, and note; practised in the middle ages, 259;
    Feast of Asses, ib.; "December liberties," 260; the boy-bishop, 261;
    Lord of Misrule, ib.; Abbot of Unreason, 262; description of a grand
    Christmas held at the Inns of Courts, 263-265, and note; the last
    memorable, of the Lords of Misrule of the Inns of Court, 266;
    anecdote of a Lord of Misrule, 267; the Mayor of Garratt, 269;
    regiment de la Calotte, ib., and note, 270; Republic of Baboonery,
    ib.; medals used for money in, iii. 150, 151.

  SAUNTERING, i. 175.

  SAVAGES, various usages of at meals, i. 171-173.

  SCALIGER, Julius, his singular manner of composition, ii. 86.

  SCARAMOUCHES.--See PANTOMIME. Punch and Zany, prints of, ii. 125;
    character of, invented by Tiberio Fiurilli, 126; power of a
    celebrated, ib.

  SCARON, account of his life and works, i. 421-428.

  SCENERY of the old English stage, iii. 4, and note.

  SCENARIE, the plots of extemporal comedies, ii. 130; description of,
    note; some discovered at Dulwich College, 139, 140, and note.

  SCRIBLERAID, the, a poetical jest on pseudo-science, by R. O.
    Cambridge, i. 295, and note.

  SCRIPTURE story treated like mediæval romance, i. 163, and note.

  SCUDERY, Mademoiselle, composed ninety romances, i. 106; panegyrics
    on, ib.; her "Great Cyrus and Map of Tenderness," 107.

  SCUDERY, George, famous for composing romances, i. 107; a votary of
    vanity, ib.; author of sixteen plays, 108.

  SECRET HISTORY, of authors who have ruined their booksellers, ii.
    532-546; of an elective monarchy, iii. 346-363; the supplement of
    history itself, iii. 380; reply to an attack on the writers of, 382;
    two species of, positive and relative, ib.; the true sources of to
    be found in MS collections, 383; neglect of by historians, 384; its
    utility, 385; of the Restoration, 386; of Mary, the Queen of William
    III., 389-393.

  SEDAN chairs, introduced into England by the Duke of Buckingham, ii.
    36.

  SEGNI, Bernardo, his History of Florence, iii. 182.

  SENTIMENTAL biography, iii. 414-424.

  SERASSI, writes the life of Tasso, ii. 444; finds Galileo's MS.
    annotations, copies them, and suppresses the original, ib.

  SERMONS, printed, Bayle's saying on, i. 345.

  SEYMOUR, William, his family and character, ii. 508; enters into a
    treaty of marriage with the Lady Arabella Stuart, ib.; summoned
    before the Privy Council, ib.; his marriage, 509; imprisoned in the
    Tower, ib.; his wife's letter to him, 510; his escape, 515; is
    permitted to return, 519.

  SHAKESPEARE, Fuller's character of, i. 380; orthography of his name,
    ii. 238, and note; introduces a masque in his "Tempest," and
    burlesques the characters in court masques, iii. 5, and note;
    bequest to his wife, 302.

  SHENSTONE, the object of his poem of the Schoolmistress misunderstood,
    ii. 496; his ludicrous index to, 499; his character, his life, and
    his works, iii. 90-102.

  SHOEING-HORNS, ii. 297, note.

  SILHOUETTE, a term not to be found in any dictionary, iii. 84;
    originated in a political nickname, ib.

  SILK stockings, pair of, presented to Queen Elizabeth, i. 226.

  SILLI, ancient parodies, ii. 455.

  SKELTON, his satire on Wolsey, iii. 187.

  SNEEZING, the custom of saluting after, i. 126; attributed to St.
    Gregory, ib.; Rabbinical account of, ib.; anecdotes concerning, 127.

  SNUFF-BOXES, the rage, in the reign of Queen Anne, i. 229; the
    Jesuits', reported to be poisoned, ii. 442.

  SOLITUDE, treatise on, by Sir George Mackenzie, ii. 50; necessary
    for the pursuits of genius, 52; discomforts of 53, 54.

  SOLOMON, accounted an adept in necromancy, i. 122; story of him and
    the Queen of Sheba, 202.

  SONGS among the Grecians, ii. 142; sayings of Fletcher of Saltoun,
    and Dr. Clerk on, ib.; Greek songs of the trades, 143; of the
    weavers among the English, ib.; harvest and oar-songs in the
    Highlands, ib.; of the gondoliers, ib.; Dibdin's, 144; old English,
    145; Swiss, 146; Italian, composed at Florence, under the Medici,
    ib.; French "Chansons de' Vendange," 147; parodied, by Puritans,
    148; slang or flash, known to the Greeks, and specimens from
    Athenæus, 149; ancient practices in, connected with old English
    customs, 150; political, iii. 179, 180.

  SONNAH, the, i. 113.

  SOTADES travestied the Iliad, ii. 455.

  SOTTIES, more farcical than farce, i. 358; specimen of one, 359-360.

  SOVEREIGNTY of the seas, ii. 79-81.

  SPANISH Etiquette, instances of its absurdity, i. 194.

  SPANISH Poetry, i. 100; remarks on and illustrative quotations of,
    101; translation of a madrigal found in a newspaper, 102.

  SPEED, the historian, suspicions of his originality, ii. 445.

  SPENSER, Fuller's character of, i. 379.

  SPIDERS, influence of music on, i. 272; admired as food, ii. 355,
    note.

  STANZAS to Laura, i. 230.

  STARCHING, origin of, i. 227.

  STEEVENS, George, the Puck of commentators, iii. 296; account of his
    literary forgeries, 297, 298; the story of Milton and the Italian
    lady attributed to, 299; his motives for omitting the Poems from his
    edition of Shakespeare, 301; his trick on the antiquary Gough, 303,
    304.

  STEPHENS, Robert, the printer, his family and their works, i. 76,
    note; divided the Bible into chapter and verse, iii. 433.

  STERNHOLD and Hopkins, their version of the Psalms, ii. 472.

  STONES, presenting representations of natural forms, i. 244, 245.

  STOSCH, Baron, his dishonest collecting, iii. 318.

  STREETS of London, origin of many of their names, ii. 239-243.

  STUART, Arabella, mistakes of historians regarding, ii. 502; her
    history, 503-519.

  STUCLEY, Sir Lewis, Vice-Admiral of Devon, accepted a surveillance
    over his kinsman, Sir Walter Rawleigh, iii. 116; his base treachery,
    119; universally shunned in consequence, 120; convicted of clipping
    gold, ib.; his miserable death, 121.

  STUDENT in the metropolis, the, description of, by Gibbon, Rogers,
    and Descartes, i. 112.

  STUDY, plans of historical, ii. 90-92.

  STUKELEY, Dr., his Imaginary History of the Empress Oriuna, i. 324,
    note.

  STYLE, remarks on, in the composition of works of science, i. 89;
    strictures on the, of theological writers, ii. 21, 22; on that of
    Lancelot Addison, 23.

  SUGAR-LOAF-COURT, origin of the name, ii. 10.

  SUPPRESSION of MSS.--See MANUSCRIPTS.

  SYDENHAM, F., his melancholy death occasions the foundation of the
    Literary Fund, i. 34, and note.

  TABLETS, and Table-books, ii. 26.

  TALMUD, many copies of, burnt, i. 48; a collection of Jewish
    traditions orally preserved, 114; comprises  Mishna, which is the
    text of the Gemara, its commentary, ib.; general account of, ib.;
    believed apocryphal, even by a few among the Jews, ib.; time of the
    first appearance of its traditions uncertain, ib.; compiled by
    Jewish doctors to oppose the Christians, ib.; analysis of, by W.
    Wotton, 115; two Talmuds, ib.; committed to writing, and arranged by
    R. Juda, prince of the Rabbins, forming the Mishna, ib.; disputes
    and opinions of the Rabbins on the form of the Mishna, ib.; God's
    study of, ib.; curious, from its antiquity, 116; specimens of, from
    the Mishnic titles, 116-118; and from the Gemara, 119.

  TASSO, various opinions on the respective merits of him and Ariosto,
    i. 386; Boileau's criticism on, 388; his errors national, ib.; his
    verses sung by the gondoliers, ib.

  TAXATION, remarks on the popular feeling on, in ancient and modern
    times, iii. 193; associated with the idea of tyranny, ib.;
    illustrative anecdotes, 194; efficacy of using a mitigated term for,
    195; gifts, tribute, benevolences, and loans, 195-198; Burleigh's
    advice on, 199.

  TAYLOR, Thomas, a modern professor of Platonism, i. 215.

  TEA, opposition to the introduction of, ii. 317; present of,
    declined by the Russian ambassador, 318; Dutch bargain for, 319;
    introduction into Europe, ib.; shop-bill of the first vendor of,
    320.

  TENURES, curious ancient, i. 187, note.

  THOMAS AQUINAS, some account of the works of, i. 63-65.

  TIMON of Philius, his parodies of Homer, ii. 455.

  TICHBOURNE, Chidiock, concerned in Babington's conspiracy, ii. 171;
    his address to the populace at his execution, 176; his letter to his
    wife, 177; verses composed by him the night before his execution,
    178.

  TITLES, origins of, and anecdotes concerning, i. 155; book of,
    published in Spain, ib.; Selden's Titles of Honour, ib.; of books,
    288-292.

  TOLERATION, practised by the Romans, and inculcated by Mahomet, iii.
    245; caution used in publishing works on, ib.; early English
    advocates  of, 246, and note; in Holland, ib.; facts illustrative
    of the history of, 247, 248; condemned by all parties, 249-253;
    opinions of an English clergyman on, 252.

  TOM O' BEDLAMS, account of, ii. 311-314, and notes; songs of, 315-317.

  TORTURE, Felton threatened with, ii. 376; its frequent use in
    England, ib.

  TORQUEMADA, first Spanish inquisitor, in fourteen years persecuted
    80,000 individuals, i. 166.

  TOWNLEY, Zouch, his poem on Felton, ii. 378; collection of antique
    marbles formed by his descendant Charles Townley, purchased for the
    British Museum, ib., note.

  TRAITORS, barbarous mode of execution of, in Queen Elizabeth's time,
    ii. 175, and note.

  TREASURES in hills, iii. 295, note.

  TREVOUX.--See DICTIONARY.

  TROUBADORS, their poems and their loves, i. 444.

  TRUSLER, Doctor, first vendor of printed sermons imitating manuscript,
    i. 400.

  TURNER, Doctor, a violent opposition leader in the second Parliament
    of Charles I., iii. 451; an agent of the opposition in Parliament
    against the measures of Charles I., 466; a disappointed courtier,
    467, note.

  TURKISH SPY, the, i. 377; John Paul Marana, the author of, 378.

  URBAN the Eighth, instances of his poetic sensibility, i. 456.

  USURERS of the 17th century, notice of the practices of, ii. 158-170.

  USURY, contrary opinions on, ii. 174, 175.

  UTOPIA, Sir Thomas More's, missionaries proposed to be sent to, i. 320.

  VACCINATION, strange dread of, ii. 317.

  VALLANCEY'S Collectanea, curious error in, i. 326, note.

  VANBRUGH, the architect of Blenheim, got a power from Lord Godolphin
    to contract in the Duke of Marlborough's name, iii. 104; produces
    the power, 106; his depositions, ib.; attempt of the Duchess of
    Marlborough to charge the debts of Blenheim on, 108; conduct of the
    Duchess towards, 109; discovery of his origin, 110, 111.

  VARCHI, Benedetto, his "Storie Florentine," iii. 183; remarks of Mr.
    Merivale on, ib., note.

  VARILLAS, his fictitious work on the Reformation, i. 132, note.

  VASARI'S History of Artists, not entirely written by himself, iii.
    131.

  VATICAN, library of, i. 4.

  VAUCANSON, his mechanical figures, iii. 284, note.

  VAUDEVILLES, origin of the name, ii. 148.

  VERSES, follies in the fantastical forms of, i. 295-300; reciprocal,
    ib.

  VICAR OF BRAY, story of the, i. 196; Dr. Kitchen, Bishop of
    Llandaff, acted the same part, 197; type of, ii. 37.

  VIDA, Jerome, from the humblest obscurity attained to the episcopacy,
    i. 105.

  VISION OF ALBERICO, ii. 422; of Charles the Bald, 423.

  VIRGIN MARY, images of, frequently portraits of mistresses and
    queens, i. 366; miraculous letter of, 367; Louis II. conveys
    Boulogne to, ib.; Life of, by Maria Agreda, ib.; worship paid to, in
    Spain, 368; system of, in seven folio vols., 369.

  VIRGINITY, St. Ambrose's treatise on, i. 412.

  WALKER, his account of the clergy of the Church of England who were
    sequestered, &c., iii. 243.

  WALPOLE, Sir Robert, his magnificent building at Houghton, iii. 191.

  WALSINGHAM, Sir Francis, died in debt, iii. 192.

  WALWORTH, Sir William, his private motive for killing Wat Tyler,
    iii. 470, note.

  WARBURTON, J., by neglect causes the destruction of old manuscript
    plays, i. 54, note.

  WAT TYLER, anecdote of, iii. 470, note.

  WESTMINSTER elections always turbulent from the days of Charles the
    First, iii. 461, note.

  WHIG and Tory, origin of the terms, iii. 88.

  WHISTLECRAFT'S Poem on King Arthur, ii. 496, note; imitated by Byron
    in his Beppo, ib.

  WHITELOCKE, his Memorials, ii. 212; his remembrances, a work
    addressed to his family, lost or concealed, ib.; preface to the
    Remembrances preserved, ib.; omissions in first edition of his
    Memorials, ii. 448.

  WIFE, Literary, i. 327; of Budæus, 328; of Evelyn, who designed the
    frontispiece to his translation of Lucretius, ib.; of Baron Haller,
    ib.; Calphurnia, wife of Pliny, ib.; Margaret, Duchess of Newcastle,
    329; extract from her epistle to her husband, ib.; notices of the
    wives of various celebrated men, 332-337.

  WIGS, custom of using, i. 217-220; Steele's, 229.

  WILKINS, Bishop, his museum, iii. 291.

  WINKELMANN, the plan on which he composed his works, ii. 89.

  WOLSEY, Cardinal, his magnificent houses, iii. 187.

  WOMEN, actors, first introduced on the Italian stage, ii. 140; on
    the English, 284; Kynaston a favourite actor of female characters,
    285, note.

  WOODCUTS, ancient, in the British Museum, i. 74, note.

  WORDS, introduction of new.--See NEOLOGY.

  WOOD, Anthony, when dying, caused his papers to be destroyed, ii.
    243; some, however, preserved, ib.; secret history of the Earl of
    Oxford drawn from, ib.; compelled to disavow the translation of his
    book, 453; Gibbon's opinion of his dulness opposed, 538, note.

  WRITING, minute, i. 275; ancient modes of, ii. 20-26; materials used
    for, 27-30.

  WRITING-MASTERS, iii. 167; Massey's lives of, 169; anecdote of
    Tomkins, 171; Peter Bales, a celebrated, 173; account of his contest
    with David Johnson, 173-177.

  XENOCRATES, pupil of Plato, attacked Aristotle, i. 142.

  YVERY, notice of the History of the House of, iii. 420, and note.

  ZANY, etymology of the word, ii. 123; and notes.

THE END.

  In page 45: "Y l pedir dolor." amended to "Y el pedir dolor."

  In page 47: "The plan consists of a dialogue betwen a philosopher and
  a Sancho Pança..." 'betwen' amended to 'between'.

  In page 66: Added double quotes at the begining of: "Lo! the
  Nominalists and the Realists again!"

  In page 208: Added double quotes at the end of: "He is dead, sir!
  asking your pardon for mentioning such a contemptible wretch!"

  In page 229: "Journal and Dictionary, which latter is almost an
  enclycopædia as there are few things..." 'enclycopædia' amended to
  'encyclopædia'.

  In page 230: "Duc de Maine" amended to "Duc du Maine".

  In page 318: "which of all those things which admit of being secretly
  purlioned, can only be practised in this department..." 'purlioned'
  amended to 'purloined'.

  In page 504: "Cadell to the late Geroge Robinson, and that the
  successor of Dr. Kippis." 'Geroge' amended to 'George'. 'usefu' corrected to 'useful'.

  In footnote 245: Added double quotes at the begining of: "heretykes,
  perverters of Christes relygyon."

  In the Index: Discoveries in literature and science, aptitude in,
  obtained hy studious men, iii. 'hy' corrected to 'by'.

